 ACT III. Scene I. Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
 ACT I. Scene I. Elsinore. A platform before the Castle.
 ACT IV. Scene I. Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
 ACT V. Scene I. Elsinore. A churchyard.
 A Gentleman, courtier.
 A Norwegian Captain.
 A Priest.
 A baseness to write fair, and labour'd much
 A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-
 About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,
 About the world have times twelve thirties been,
 A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
 A brother's murther! Pray can I not,
 Absent thee from felicity awhile,
 Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
 According to the phrase or the addition
 A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
 A combination and a form indeed
 A couch for luxury and damned incest.
 Act II. Scene I. Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
 Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
 A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
 A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
 Addicted so and so'; and there put on him
 Adieu, adieu, adieu! Remember me. Exit.
 Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
 A double blessing is a double grace;
 A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
 A face without a heart,'
 A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
 Affront Ophelia.
 A flourish of trumpets, and two pieces go off.
 After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
 After the thing it loves.
 Against the which a moiety competent
 Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven,
 Against yourself. I know you are no truant.
 A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
 Ah, mine own lord, what have I seen to-night!
 A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
 Alack, and fie for shame!
 Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
 Alexander was buried, Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is
 A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
 A little month, or ere those shoes were old
 All. Gentlemen!
 All. Lights, lights, lights!
 All. No, let's come in!
 All. Our duty to your honour.
 All. Treason! treason!
 All. We will, we will!
 All flaxen was his poll.
 All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
 All given to mine ear.
 All in the morning bedtime,
 All may be well. He kneels.
 All my smooth body.
 All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past
 Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
 A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
 Ambassador. The sight is dismal;
 A minist'ring angel shall my sister be
 Among a mineral of metals base,
 An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope,
 And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught,-
 And I a maid at your window,
 And I am sick at heart.
 And I believe it is a fetch of warrant.
 And I beseech you instantly to visit
 And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
 And I do think- or else this brain of mine
 And I'll be plac'd so please you, in the ear
 And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
 And I the matter will reword; which madness
 And I with them the third night kept the watch;
 And You must put me in your heart for friend,
 And after we will both our judgments join
 And all we mourn for.
 And a man's life is no more than to say 'one.'
 And am most sensibly in grief for it,
 And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
 And, as I think, they have already order
 And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
 And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so.
 And, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alarm,
 And, as the world were now but to begin,
 And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
 And at our more consider'd time we'll read,
 And at the sound it shrunk in haste away
 And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes
 And bear it to the chapel.
 And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
 And blow them at the moon. O, 'tis most sweet
 And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
 And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
 And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
 And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
 And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
 And break your own neck down.
 And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
 And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
 And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
 And by opposing end them. To die- to sleep-
 And call it accident.
 And call the noblest to the audience.
 And can say nothing! No, not for a king,
 And carriage of the article design'd,
 And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;
 And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
 And could of men distinguish, her election
 And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
 And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
 And do not spread the compost on the weeds
 And do such bitter business as the day
 And do't the speedier that you may direct me
 And draw you into madness? Think of it.
 And drive his purpose on to these delights.
 And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
 And dupp'd the chamber door,
 And each particular hair to stand an end
 And either [master] the devil, or throw him out
 And end his being. That done, he lets me go,
 And enterprises of great pith and moment
 And even the like precurse of fierce events,
 And ever three parts coward,- I do not know
 And fall a-cursing like a very drab,
 And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
 And foreign mart for implements of war;
 And for his death no wind
 And for my means, I'll husband them so well
 And for my soul, what can it do to that,
 And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword.
 And for the day confin'd to fast in fires,
 And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
 And for your rapier most especially,
 And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
 And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him.
 And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more.
 And gather by him, as he is behav'd,
 And gave you such a masterly report
 And gem of all the nation.
 And gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
 And hath abatements and delays as many
 And hath shipped me intil the land,
 And hears it roar beneath.
 And he beseech'd me to entreat your Majesties
 And he not from his reason fall'n thereon
 And here give up ourselves, in the full bent,
 And he, repulsed, a short tale to make,
 And he to England shall along with you.
 And his commission to employ those soldiers,
 And his sandal shoon.
 And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
 And hit the woundless air.- O, come away!
 And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
 And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven?
 And hurt my brother.
 And if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
 And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
 And in his grave rain'd many a tear.
 And in part him.' Do you mark this, Reynaldo?
 And in the cup an union shall he throw
 And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
 And in the porches of my ears did pour
 And in this brainish apprehension kills
 And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
 And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
 And it must follow, as the night the day,
 And keep you in the rear of your affection,
 And lay your hands again upon my sword.
 And leads the will to desperate undertakings
 And let all sleep, while to my shame I see
 And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
 And let him know so.
 And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
 And let me wring your heart; for so I shall
 And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
 And let them know both what we mean to do
 And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
 And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
 And let us once again assail your ears,
 And, like a man to double business bound,
 And, like a neutral to his will and matter,
 And, like the kind life-rend'ring pelican,
 And live the purer with the other half,
 And lose the name of action.- Soft you now!
 And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
 And makes as healthful music. It is not madness
 And makes each petty artire in this body
 And makes us rather bear those ills we have
 And many such-like as's of great charge,
 And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
 And meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy!
 And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame
 And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up;
 And more above, hath his solicitings,
 And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
 And my imaginations are as foul
 And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
 And never come mischance between us twain! Exit.
 And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
 And not have strew'd thy grave.
 And nothing is at a like goodness still;
 And not where I had aim'd them.
 And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven,
 And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
 And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
 And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God b' wi', you. Exit.
 And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
 And our affairs from England come too late.
 And our vain blows malicious mockery.
 And passion in the gods.'
 And pious action we do sugar o'er
 And pity 'tis 'tis true. A foolish figure!
 And prais'd be rashness for it; let us know,
 And prey on garbage.
 And prologue to the omen coming on,
 And put it in his pocket!
 And reason panders will.
 And recks not his own rede.
 And scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
 And set a double varnish on the fame
 And sets a blister there; makes marriage vows
 And shall I couple hell? Hold, hold, my heart!
 And since so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour,
 And, sister, as the winds give benefit
 And so am I reveng'd. That would be scann'd.
 And so, without more circumstance at all,
 And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
 And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
 And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
 And sure I am two men there are not living
 And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
 And tell you what I know.
 And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
 And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine-
 And that I see, in passages of proof,
 And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepar'd him
 And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
 And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
 And that in way of caution- I must tell you
 And that our drift look through our bad performance.
 And that shall lend a kind of easiness
 And that your Grace hath screen'd and stood between
 And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again,
 And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
 And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
 And there I see such black and grained spots
 And there assume some other, horrible form
 And there did seem in him a kind of joy
 And therefore I forbid my tears; but yet
 And therefore must his choice be circumscrib'd
 And these few precepts in thy memory
 And they can well on horseback; but this gallant
 And they in France of the best rank and station
 And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.
 And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more.
 And thirty dozed moons with borrowed sheen
 And thou must cure me. Till I know 'tis done,
 And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
 And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
 And thus a while the fit will work on him.
 And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
 And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
 And thus the native hue of resolution
 And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
 And thy commandment all alone shall live
 And to such wondrous doing brought his horse
 And to the last bended their light on me.
 And to the manner born, it is a custom
 And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge
 And vanish'd from our sight.
 And wager on your heads. He, being remiss,
 And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
 And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
 And we beseech you, bend you to remain
 And we cast away moan.
 And we did think it writ down in our duty
 And we shall jointly labour with your soul
 And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?
 And what's in prayer but this twofold force,
 And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
 And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
 And what's untimely done. [So haply slander-]
 And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
 And when you are desirous to be blest,
 And where th' offence is let the great axe fall.
 And where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weigh'd,
 And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
 And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
 And will he not come again?
 And will he not come again?
 And will not let belief take hold of him
 And will not wrong it.
 And will this brother's wager frankly play.
 And with a larger tether may he walk
 And with a look so piteous in purport
 And with a sudden vigour it doth posset
 And with his head over his shoulder turn'd
 And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
 And with no less nobility of love
 And with such coz'nage- is't not perfect conscience
 And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
 And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd
 And with th' encorporal air do hold discourse?
 And (would it were not so!) you are my mother.
 And you are stay'd for. There- my blessing with thee!
 And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
 And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
 And you the judges, bear a wary eye.
 And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
 An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
 An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
 A noise within.
 A noise within: 'Let her come in.'
 Anon, as patient as the female dove
 Answer, and think upon this business.
 An thou hadst not come to my bed.'
 Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
 An understanding simple and unschool'd;
 A pickaxe and a spade, a spade,
 Appears before them and with solemn march
 A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
 Are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
 Are burnt and purg'd away. But that I am forbid
 Are here arriv'd, give order that these bodies
 Are joyfully return'd.
 Are mortis'd and adjoin'd; which when it falls,
 Are most select and generous, chief in that.
 A rhapsody of words! Heaven's face doth glow;
 Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
 Aroused vengeance sets him new awork;
 Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay.
 As England was his faithful tributary,
 As I do thee. Something too much of this I
 (As I perceiv'd it, I must tell you that,
 (As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
 As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
 As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
 A sable silver'd.
 As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
 As are companions noted and most known
 A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
 'As by lot, God wot,'
 As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
 As checking at his voyage, and that he means
 A scullion!
 As day does to your eye.
 As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this, ha?
 As did that one; and that, in my regard,
 A second time I kill my husband dead
 As e'er my conversation cop'd withal.
 A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
 As false as dicers' oaths. O, such a deed
 As fits a king's remembrance.
 As from the body of contraction plucks
 As had he been incorps'd and demi-natur'd
 As harbingers preceding still the fates
 As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
 As he in his particular act and place
 As he is very potent with such spirits,
 As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays.
 As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so.
 (As how should it be so? how otherwise?),
 As hush as death- anon the dreadful thunder
 [Aside] To my sick soul (as sin's true nature is)
 As if I had never been such.
 As if he had been loosed out of hell
 As if increase of appetite had grown
 As if it some impartment did desire
 A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
 As infinite as man may undergo-
 As in their birth,- wherein they are not guilty,
 A sister driven into desp'rate terms,
 As it behooves my daughter and your honour.
 As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
 As it doth well appear unto our state,
 As it hath us'd to do- that I have found
 As it is common for the younger sort
 As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
 A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
 As level as the cannon to his blank,
 As love between them like the palm might flourish,
 As low as to the fiends!
 As made the things more rich. Their perfume lost,
 As make your bouts more violent to that end-
 As may dishonour him- take heed of that;
 As meditation or the thoughts of love,
 As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
 As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
 As of a father; for let the world take note
 As oft as any passion under heaven
 As one incapable of her own distress,
 As one, in suff'ring all, that suffers nothing;
 As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
 As stars with trains of fire, and dews of blood,
 Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
 A station like the herald Mercury
 As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
 As therein are set down.
 As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
 As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
 As to expend your time with us awhile
 As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
 As to peace-parted souls.
 As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' th' working,
 As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
 As we have warranty. Her death was doubtful;
 As will not leave their tinct.
 A sword unbated, and, in a pass of practice,
 As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
 A table and flagons of wine on it.
 At gaming, swearing, or about some act
 At his head a grass-green turf,
 At his heels a stone.
 A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
 At last, a little shaking of mine arm,
 At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark. [Writes.]
 At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
 Attendants].
 Attendants with foils and gauntlets.
 Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
 A very noble youth. Mark.
 A very, very- pajock.
 A villain kills my father; and for that,
 A violet in the youth of primy nature,
 Awake the god of day; and at his warning,
 Away! for everything is seal'd and done
 A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends."
 Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
 Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
 Be all my sins rememb'red.
 Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage;
 Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
 Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
 Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come.
 Be buried quick with her, and so will I.
 Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more.
 Becomes the field but here shows much amiss.
 Been struck so to the soul that presently
 Been thus encount'red. A figure like your father,
 Before You visit him, to make inquire
 Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks;
 Before my daughter told me), what might you,
 Behind the arras I'll convey myself
 Behind the arras hearing something stir,
 Being a thing immortal as itself?
 Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,
 Believe so much in him, that he is young,
 Ber. Have you had quiet guard?
 Ber. He.
 Ber. How now, Horatio? You tremble and look pale.
 Ber. I have seen nothing.
 Ber. In the same figure, like the King that's dead.
 Ber. I think it be no other but e'en so.
 Ber. It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
 Ber. It would be spoke to.
 Ber. Last night of all,
 Ber. Long live the King!
 Ber. Looks it not like the King? Mark it, Horatio.
 Ber. Say-
 Ber. See, it stalks away!
 Ber. Sit down awhile,
 Ber. 'Tis here!
 Ber. 'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
 Ber. Welcome, Horatio. Welcome, good Marcellus.
 Ber. Well, good night.
 Ber. Who's there.?
 Bernardo, officer.
 Be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
 Be something scanter of your maiden presence.
 Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
 Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
 Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar:
 Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
 Between the pass and fell incensed points
 Be wary then; best safety lies in fear.
 Be you and I behind an arras then.
 Be you content to lend your patience to us,
 Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
 Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
 Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
 Both. Arm'd, my lord.
 Both. Ay, by heaven, my lord.
 Both. Longer, longer.
 Both [Mar. and Ber.] We do, my lord.
 Both. My lord, from head to foot.
 Both. My lord, we will not.
 Both. We'll wait upon you.
 Both. We will haste us.
 Both. We will, my lord. Exeunt they two.
 Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
 Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
 Both to my God and to my gracious king;
 Bow, stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel,
 Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
 Break we our watch up; and by my advice
 Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
 Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
 Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
 Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
 But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
 But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
 But I do prophesy th' election lights
 But I have that within which passeth show-
 But I will delve one yard below their mines
 But age with his stealing steps
 But answer made it none. Yet once methought
 But, as we often see, against some storm,
 But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?
 But better look'd into, he truly found
 But break my heart, for I must hold my tongue!
 But come!
 But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
 But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
 But do not go with it!
 But even his mother shall uncharge the practice
 But even then the morning cock crew loud,
 But farewell it, for I will use no art.
 But fill unshaken when they mellow be.
 But from what cause he will by no means speak.
 But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
 But he's an arrant knave.
 But how does it well? It does well to those that do ill. Now,
 But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
 But if't be he I mean, he's very wild
 But if the gods themselves did see her then,
 But if you hold it fit, after the play
 But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
 But in battalions! First, her father slain;
 But in our circumstance and course of thought,
 But, in the gross and scope of my opinion,
 But, in the verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
 But it reserv'd some quantity of choice
 But keep a farm and carters.
 But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
 But let me hear from you.
 But let that go.
 But let this same be presently perform'd,
 But, like the owner of a foul disease,
 But look, amazement on thy mother sits.
 But look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
 But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
 But mere implorators of unholy suits,
 But never doubt I love.
 But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
 But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
 But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son-
 But on! Six Barbary horses against six French swords, their
 But, orderly to end where I begun,
 But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them.
 But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
 But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
 But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
 But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
 But soft! behold! Lo, where it comes again!
 But soft! but soft! aside! Here comes the King-
 But soft! methinks I scent the morning air.
 But sure the bravery of his grief did put me
 But that I know love is begun by time,
 But that the dread of something after death-
 But that this folly douts it. Exit.
 But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
 But this eternal blazon must not be
 But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
 But to confront the visage of offence?
 But to my mind, though I am native here
 But to recover of us, by strong hand
 But truly I do fear it.
 But two months dead! Nay, not so much, not two.
 But virtue, as it never will be mov'd,
 But we will ship him hence; and this vile deed
 But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
 But what is your affair in Elsinore?
 But what we do determine oft we break.
 But wilt thou bear me how I did proceed?
 But with a crafty madness keeps aloof
 But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
 But woe is me! you are so sick of late,
 But yet to me they are strong. The Queen his mother
 But you'll be secret?
 But you must know, your father lost a father;
 But you shall hear. Thus:
 Buys out the law; but 'tis not so above.
 By Cock, they are to blame.
 By desperate appliance are reliev'd,
 By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!-
 By heaven, it is as proper to our age
 By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight
 By his cockle bat and' staff
 By indirections find directions out.
 By laboursome petition, and at last
 By letters congruing to that effect,
 By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
 By the mass, I was about to say something! Where did I leave?
 By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
 By this encompassment and drift of question
 By what it fed on; and yet, within a month-
 Calls virtue hypocrite; takes off the rose
 Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murther'?
 Can you advise me?
 Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds,
 Capt. Against some part of Poland.
 Capt. God b' wi' you, sir. [Exit.]
 Capt. I will do't, my lord.
 Capt. The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras.
 Capt. They are of Norway, sir.
 Capt. Truly to speak, and with no addition,
 Capt. Yes, it is already garrison'd.
 Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
 Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
 Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
 Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver broke,
 Claudius, King of Denmark.
 Clown. A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! 'A pour'd a flagon of
 Clown. 'A was the first that ever bore arms.
 Clown. A whoreson, mad fellow's it was. Whose do you think it was?
 Clown. Ay, marry, is't- crowner's quest law.
 Clown. Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
 Clown. Cannot you tell that? Every fool can tell that. It was the
 Clown. Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull ass will
 Clown. E'en that.
 Clown. Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
 Clown. Faith, if 'a be not rotten before 'a die (as we have many
 Clown. For no man, sir.
 Clown. For none neither.
 Clown. Give me leave. Here lies the water; good. Here stands the
 Clown. How can that be, unless she drown'd herself in her own
 Clown. I like thy wit well, in good faith. The gallows does well.
 Clown. Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully
 Clown. It must be se offendendo; it cannot be else. For here lies
 Clown. Mine, sir.
 Clown. Of all the days i' th' year, I came to't that day that our
 Clown. One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
 Clown. (Sings)
 Clown. 'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away again from me to you.
 Clown. To't.
 Clown. 'Twill not he seen in him there. There the men are as mad as
 Clown. Very strangely, they say.
 Clown. What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the Scripture?
 Clown. What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the
 Clown. Why, because 'a was mad. 'A shall recover his wits there;
 Clown. Why, here in Denmark. I have been sexton here, man and boy
 Clown. Why, sir, his hide is so tann'd with his trade that 'a will
 Clown. Why, there thou say'st! And the more pity that great folk
 Clown. You lie out on't, sir, and therefore 'tis not yours.
 [Clown digs and] sings.
 Clown. (sings)
 Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
 Collected from all simples that have virtue
 Colours, and Attendants.
 Come.
 Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends
 Come, I will give you way for these your letters,
 Come. (They play.) Another hit. What say you?
 Come hither, gentlemen,
 Come on! You hear this fellow in the cellarage.
 Comes armed through our watch, so like the King
 Come short of what he did.
 Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
 Come, some music!
 Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
 Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
 Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
 Conjures the wand'ring stars, and makes them stand
 Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
 Consent to swear.
 Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood
 Contagious blastments are most imminent.
 Convert his gives to graces; so that my arrows,
 Cor., Volt. In that, and all things, will we show our duty.
 Cornelius, courtier.
 Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
 Couch we awhile, and mark.
 Could force his soul so to his own conceit
 Could not so mope.
 Could not (with all their quantity of love)
 Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
 Craves the conveyance of a promis'd march
 Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot
 Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
 Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
 Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
 Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
 Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
 Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night.
 Deliberate pause. Diseases desperate grown
 Denmark?- What, my young lady and mistress? By'r Lady, your
 Depriv'd thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
 Devis'd a new commission; wrote it fair.
 Devoutly to be wish'd. To die- to sleep.
 Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
 Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
 Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
 Did nothing.
 Did not together pluck such envy from him
 Did slay this Fortinbras; who, by a seal'd compact,
 Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
 Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;
 Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
 Dies in his own too-much. That we would do,
 Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw
 Directly seasons him his enemy.
 Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
 Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must;
 Divided from herself and her fair-judgment,
 Do I impart toward you. For your intent
 Does by their own insinuation grow.
 Does not divide the Sunday from the week.
 Do not as some ungracious pastors do,
 Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
 Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
 Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
 Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
 Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murther of
 Doth all the noble substance often dout To his own scandal.
 Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day?
 Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
 Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
 Doubt that the sun doth move;
 'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
 Doubt truth to be a liar;
 Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
 Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
 Drabbing. You may go so far.
 Dramatis Personae
 Drink off this potion! Is thy union here?
 [Drum; trumpets sound; a piece goes off [within].
 Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
 Each small annexment, petty consequence,
 Each toy seems Prologue to some great amiss.
 Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
 Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
 Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
 Elsinore.
 English Ambassadors.
 Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
 Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassadors, with Drum,
 Enter Fortinbras with his Army over the stage.
 Enter Ghost.
 Enter Ghost.
 Enter Ghost again.
 Enter Ghost and Hamlet.
 Enter Hamlet.
 Enter Hamlet.
 Enter Hamlet.
 Enter Hamlet.
 Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus.
 Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, [Guildenstern,] and others.
 Enter Hamlet and Guildenstern [with Attendants].
 Enter Hamlet and Horatio.
 Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.
 Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.
 Enter Hamlet, reading on a book.
 Enter Horatio.
 Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.
 Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman.
 Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
 Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
 Enter Horatio with an Attendant.
 Enter King.
 Enter King.
 Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Osric, and Lords, with other
 Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and Lords.
 Enter King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
 Enter King and Laertes.
 Enter King and Polonius.
 Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
 Enter Laertes and Ophelia.
 Enter Laertes with others.
 Enter Lucianus.
 Enter Ophelia.
 Enter Ophelia.
 Enter Ophelia distracted.
 Enter Polonius.
 Enter Polonius.
 Enter Polonius.
 Enter Polonius.
 Enter Polonius.
 Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
 Enter Polonius, Voltemand, and Cornelius.
 Enter Polonius and Reynaldo.
 Enter Prologue.
 Enter Queen.
 Enter Queen and Polonius.
 Enter Rosencrantz.
 Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
 Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
 Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
 Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
 Enter Sailors.
 Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing
 Enter a Lord.
 Enter a Messenger.
 Enter a Messenger with letters.
 Enter four or five Players.
 Enter [priests with] a coffin [in funeral procession], King,
 Enter the Ghost in his nightgown.
 Enter the Players with recorders.
 Enter two Clowns, [with spades and pickaxes].
 Enter [two Players as] King and Queen.
 Enter two Sentinels-[first,] Francisco, [who paces up and down at his post; then] Bernardo, [who approaches him].
 Enter young Osric, a courtier.
 Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
 Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
 Even here between the chaste unsmirched brows
 Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
 Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone?
 Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
 Even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance
 Even with the very comment of thy soul
 Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet.
 Excitements of my reason and my blood,
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt.
 [Exeunt Attendants.]
 Exeunt Gentlemen.
 Exeunt Ghost and Hamlet.
 Exeunt King and Polonius].
 Exeunt King and Queen, [with Attendants].
 Exeunt Players.
 Exeunt Polonius and Players [except the First].
 [Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
 Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
 [Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]
 Exeunt [Rosencrantz and Guildenstern].
 Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern]
 Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, [with some
 Exeunt Voltemand and Cornelius.
 Exeunt [all but Hamlet].
 [Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
 [Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
 Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.
 Exeunt [all but the Captain].
 Exeunt marching; after the which a peal of ordnance
 [Exit Attendant.]
 [Exit First Player.]
 [Exit Gentleman.]
 Exit Ghost.
 Exit Ghost.
 Exit Ghost.
 [Exit Horatio.]
 Exit Horatio.
 [Exit Lord.]
 Exit Messenger.
 [Exit Polonius.]
 Exit [Polonius].
 Exit [Polonius].
 [Exit Queen.]
 Exit Reynaldo.
 [Exit Second Clown.]
 [Exit the Queen. Then] Exit Hamlet, tugging in
 Exposing what is mortal and unsure
 Extorted treasure in the womb of earth
 Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
 Fall'n on th' inventors' heads. All this can I
 Fall ten times treble on that cursed head
 Farewell.
 Farewell. My blessing season this in thee!
 Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
 Farewell, dear mother.
 Fare you well, my dove!
 Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
 Feeds on his wonder, keep, himself in clouds,
 Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide
 Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
 Fie on't! ah, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
 Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! Hum, I have heard
 Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
 Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
 Flourish. [Enter Claudius, King of Denmark, Gertrude the Queen, Hamlet, Polonius, Laertes and his sister Ophelia, [Voltemand, Cornelius,] Lords Attendant.
 Flourish. [Enter King and Queen, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, cum aliis.
 Flourish. Exeunt all but Hamlet.
 Flourish for the Players.
 Folded the writ up in the form of th' other,
 Follow my mother. King dies.
 For England.
 For. Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king.
 For. Go softly on.
 For Hecuba!
 For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
 For and a shrouding sheet;
 For art and exercise in your defence,
 For bearers of this greeting to old Norway,
 For by the image of my cause I see
 Fordo it own life. 'Twas of some estate.
 For every man hath business and desire,
 For food and diet, to some enterprise
 For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly
 For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
 For he himself is subject to his birth.
 For her perfections. But my revenge will come.
 For he was likely, had he been put on,
 For husband shalt thou-
 For if the King like not the comedy,
 For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
 For in the fatness of these pursy times
 For it is as the air, invulnerable,
 For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
 For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
 For look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died
 For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune.
 Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
 For murther, though it have no tongue, will speak
 For my part, I do not lie in't, yet it is mine.
 For nature crescent does not grow alone
 For out o' doors he went without their help
 For some must watch, while some must sleep:
 (For so this side of our known world esteem'd him)
 For such a guest is meet.
 For such a guest is meet.
 Fort. Let four captains
 Fort. Let us haste to hear it,
 Fort. This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death,
 Fort. Where is this sight?
 For that which thou hast done,- must send thee hence
 Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
 For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
 For the demand of our neglected tribute.
 For the supply and profit of our hope,
 For they are actions that a man might play;
 For this effect defective comes by cause.
 For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
 For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
 Fortinbras, Prince of Norway.
 For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
 For 'tis the sport to have the enginer
 For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
 Forward, not permanent- sweet, not lasting;
 For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
 For we will fetters put upon this fear,
 For what advancement may I hope from thee,
 For what we know must be, and is as common
 (For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death),
 For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
 For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
 For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
 For women's fear and love holds quantity,
 For your desire to know what is between us,
 Fran. Bernardo?
 Fran. Bernardo hath my place.
 Fran. For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
 Fran. Give you good night.
 Fran. I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who is there?
 Fran. Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
 Fran. Not a mouse stirring.
 Fran. You come most carefully upon your hour.
 Francisco, a soldier
 Free me so far in your most generous thoughts
 Friends both, go join you with some further aid.
 From another one?
 From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
 From me, whose love was of that dignity
 From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
 From that particular fault. The dram of e'il
 From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
 From the first corse till he that died to-day,
 From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
 'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd.
 Gent. She is importunate, indeed distract.
 Gent. She speaks much of her father; says she hears
 Gentlemen. (within) Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
 Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
 Getrude, Queen of Denmark, mother to Hamlet.
 Get you a place.
 Ghost. Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
 Ghost. Do not forget. This visitation
 Ghost. I am thy father's spirit,
 Ghost. I find thee apt;
 Ghost. If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not.
 Ghost. Mark me.
 Ghost. Murther most foul, as in the best it is;
 Ghost. My hour is almost come,
 Ghost. Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
 Ghost. Revenge his foul and most unnatural murther.
 Ghost. So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
 Ghost. Swear.
 [Ghost beckons.]
 Ghost beckons Hamlet.
 Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
 Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
 Ghost. [beneath] Swear by his sword.
 Ghost cries under the stage.
 Ghost of Hamlet's Father.
 Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice;
 Give him the cup.
 Give it an understanding but no tongue.
 Give me my father!
 Give me one poor request.
 Give, me superfluous death. A noise within.
 Give me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll ha't.
 Given private time to you, and you yourself
 [Gives a paper.]
 Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee
 Give us the foils. Come on.
 Give you good night. Exit.
 Giving more light than heat, extinct in both
 Giving to you no further personal power
 Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
 God 'a'mercy on his soul!
 God bless you, sir!
 God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
 Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walk'd
 Gonzago'?
 Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.-
 Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
 Good my lord, will you see the players well bestow'd? Do you
 Good night- but go not to my uncle's bed.
 Good night, mother.
 'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman'-
 Go on. I'll follow thee.
 Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
 Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
 Go to thy deathbed;
 Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together.
 [Grapples with him].
 Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel;
 Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
 Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
 Grop'd I to find out them; had my desire,
 Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
 Guil. A thing, my lord?
 Guil. Believe me, I cannot.
 Guil. But these cannot I command to any utt'rance of harmony. I
 Guil. But we both obey,
 Guil. But with much forcing of his disposition.
 Guil. Faith, her privates we.
 Guil. Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start
 Guil. Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
 Guil. Happy in that we are not over-happy.
 Guil. Heavens make our presence and our practices
 Guil. I know, no touch of it, my lord.
 Guil. In what, my dear lord?
 Guil. Is in his retirement, marvellous distemper'd.
 Guil. My honour'd lord!
 Guil. My lord, I cannot.
 Guil. My lord, we were sent for.
 Guil. Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
 Guil. No, my lord; rather with choler.
 Guil. Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
 Guil. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly.
 Guil. O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
 Guil. Prison, my lord?
 Guil. The King, sir-
 Guil. The Queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit
 Guil. There are the players.
 Guil. We will ourselves provide.
 Guil. What, my lord?
 Guil. What should we say, my lord?
 Guil. Which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of
 Guildenstern, and other Lords attendant, with the Guard
 Guildenstern, courtier.
 HAMLET.'
 'HAMLET.'
 Had I but time (as this fell sergeant, Death,
 Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same comart
 Had he the motive and the cue for passion
 Had it th' ability of life to thank you.
 Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
 Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
 Had witchcraft in't. He grew unto his seat,
 Ham. A bloody deed- almost as bad, good mother,
 Ham. A dream itself is but a shadow.
 Ham. A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and
 Ham. Aha! Come, some music! Come, the recorders!
 Ham. Aha boy, say'st thou so? Art thou there, truepenny?
 Ham. A king of shreds and patches!-
 Ham. Alas, poor ghost!
 Ham. Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
 Ham. A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat
 Ham. A murtherer and a villain!
 Ham. And do still, by these pickers and stealers!
 Ham. And fix'd his eyes upon you?
 Ham. And smelt so? Pah!
 Ham. And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
 Ham. An earnest conjuration from the King,
 Ham. Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
 Ham. Are you fair?
 Ham. Arm'd, say you?
 Ham. As th'art a man,
 Ham. As woman's love.
 Ham. At supper.
 Ham. A whole one I!
 Ham. Ay, lady, it was my word.
 Ham. Ay, madam, it is common.
 Ham. Ay, marry, is't;
 Ham. Ay, marry, why was be sent into England?
 Ham. Ay, or any show that you'll show him. Be not you asham'd to
 Ham. Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man
 Ham. Ay, sir, but 'while the grass grows'- the proverb is something
 Ham. Ay, sir; that soaks up the King's countenance, his rewards,
 Ham. Ay, sir, what of him?
 Ham. Ay, so, God b' wi' ye!
 Ham. Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform
 Ham. Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you;
 Ham. Being thus benetted round with villanies,
 Ham. Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your
 Ham. Between who?
 Ham. Bid the players make haste, [Exit Polonius.] Will you two
 Ham. But soft! What noise? Who calls on Hamlet? O, here they come.
 Ham. But where was this?
 Ham. But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
 Ham. Buzz, buzz!
 Ham. 'By-and-by' is easily said.- Leave me, friends.
 Ham. Come, come, and sit you down. You shall not budge I
 Ham. Come for the third, Laertes! You but dally.
 Ham. Come on, sir.
 Ham. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
 Ham. Denmark's a prison.
 Ham. Did you not speak to it?
 Ham. Does it not, thinks't thee, stand me now upon-
 Ham. Do not believe it.
 Ham. Dost thou think Alexander look'd o' this fashion i' th' earth?
 Ham. Do the boys carry it away?
 Ham. Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the
 Ham. Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
 Ham. Do you see nothing there?
 Ham. Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
 Ham. Do you think I meant country matters?
 Ham. Ecstasy?
 Ham. Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish. I eat the air,
 Ham. Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.
 Ham. Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play to-morrow.
 Ham. For England?
 Ham. For God's love let me hear!
 Ham. For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god
 Ham. From top to toe?
 Ham. Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come! Th'
 Ham. Get thee to a nunnery! Why wouldst thou be a breeder of
 Ham. Give me your pardon, sir. I have done you wrong;
 Ham. God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every man after his
 Ham. Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
 Ham. Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
 Ham. Good.
 Ham. Good madam!
 Ham. Good sir, whose powers are these?
 Ham. Ha, ha! Are you honest?
 Ham. Hark you, Guildenstern- and you too- at each ear a hearer!
 Ham. Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
 Ham. Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he sings at
 Ham. Hear you, sir!
 Ham. Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
 Ham. He did comply with his dug before he suck'd it. Thus has he,
 Ham. He poisons him i' th' garden for's estate. His name's Gonzago.
 Ham. Here's the commission; read it at more leisure.
 Ham. Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned Dane,
 Ham. He that plays the king shall be welcome- his Majesty shall
 Ham. He was a man, take him for all in all.
 Ham. He will stay till you come.
 Ham. Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.
 Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come.
 Ham. His beard was grizzled- no?
 Ham. Hold off your hands!
 Ham. Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
 Ham. How absolute the knave is! We must speak by the card, or
 Ham. How came he mad?
 Ham. How chances it they travel? Their residence, both in
 Ham. How comes it? Do they grow rusty?
 Ham. How does the Queen?
 Ham. How if I answer no?
 Ham. How is it with you, lady?
 Ham. How long is that since?
 Ham. How long will a man lie i' th' earth ere he rot?
 Ham. How purpos'd, sir, I pray you?
 Ham. How say you then? Would heart of man once think it?
 Ham. How strangely?
 Ham. I am but mad north-north-west. When the wind is southerly I
 Ham. I am constant to my purposes; they follow the King's pleasure.
 Ham. I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.
 Ham. I am glad to see you well.
 Ham. I am sorry they offend you, heartily;
 Ham. I am tame, sir; pronounce.
 Ham. I am very glad to see you.- [To Bernardo] Good even, sir.-
 Ham. I beseech you remember.
 Ham. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
 Ham. I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with him in
 Ham. I dare not drink yet, madam; by-and-by.
 Ham. I do beseech you.
 Ham. I do not think so. Since he went into France I have been in
 Ham. I do not well understand that. Will you play upon this pipe?
 Ham. I embrace it freely,
 Ham. If it assume my noble father's person,
 Ham. If she should break it now!
 Ham. If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry:
 Ham. I have heard of your paintings too, well enough. God hath
 Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted;
 Ham. I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to Horatio] Dost know this
 Ham. I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
 Ham. I'll be with you straight. Go a little before.
 Ham. I'll be your foil, Laertes. In mine ignorance
 Ham. I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile.
 Ham. I lov'd Ophelia. Forty thousand brothers
 Ham. I mean, my head upon your lap?
 Ham. I must to England; you know that?
 Ham. Indeed, indeed, sirs. But this troubles me.
 Ham. Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
 Ham. In happy time.
 Ham. In heaven. Send thither to see. If your messenger find him not
 Ham. In my mind's eye, Horatio.
 Ham. In the secret parts of Fortune? O! most true! she is a
 Ham. Into my grave?
 Ham. I pray you.
 Ham. I prithee do not mock me, fellow student.
 Ham. I see a cherub that sees them. But come, for England!
 Ham. I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
 Ham. Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
 Ham. Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
 Ham. Is't possible?
 Ham. I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in't.
 Ham. It is as easy as lying. Govern these ventages with your
 Ham. It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gaingiving as
 Ham. It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and
 Ham. It shall to the barber's, with your beard.- Prithee say on.
 Ham. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there. Be
 Ham. It waves me still.
 Ham. It will be short; the interim is mine,
 Ham. It will not speak. Then will I follow it.
 Ham. It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
 Ham. I will.
 Ham. I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players. Mark it.-
 Ham. I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of spirit. Put your
 Ham. I will tell you why. So shall my anticipation prevent your
 Ham. I will watch to-night.
 Ham. I would I had been there.
 Ham. I would not hear your enemy say so,
 Ham. I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not
 Ham. Judgment!
 Ham. Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
 Ham. Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but not
 Ham. Let me see. [Takes the skull.] Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him,
 Ham. Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool
 Ham. Look here upon th's picture, and on this,
 Ham. Madam, how like you this play?
 Ham. Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseas'd. But, sir, such
 Ham. Marry, this is miching malhecho; it means mischief.
 Ham. Methinks it is like a weasel.
 Ham. Mother, you have my father much offended.
 Ham. Murther?
 Ham. My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah,
 Ham. My fate cries out
 Ham. My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in
 Ham. My mother! Father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is
 Ham. Nay, I know not.
 Ham. Nay, I know not. Is it the King?
 Ham. Nay, but swear't.
 Ham. Nay, but to live
 Ham. Nay come! again! The Queen falls.
 Ham. Nay, do not think I flatter;
 Ham. Nay, that follows not.
 Ham. Never make known what you have seen to-night.
 Ham. Never to speak of this that you have seen.
 Ham. No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is northerly.
 Ham. No, by the rood, not so!
 Ham. No, by this bad.
 Ham. No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty
 Ham. No, good mother. Here's metal more attractive.
 Ham. No, no! They do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i' th'
 Ham. No, nor mine now. [To Polonius] My lord, you play'd once
 Ham. No, not I!
 Ham. Nor did you nothing hear?
 Ham. Nor the soles of her shoe?
 Ham. No such matter! I will not sort you with the rest of my
 Ham. Not a whit, we defy augury; there's a special providence in
 Ham. Nothing.
 Ham. Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through
 Ham. Not so, my lord. I am too much i' th' sun.
 Ham. Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
 Ham. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten. A certain
 Ham. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
 Ham. Now, mother, what's the matter?
 Ham. No, you will reveal it.
 Ham. O God!
 Ham. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a
 Ham. O God, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry?
 Ham. O, I die, Horatio!
 Ham. O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
 Ham. O all you host of heaven! O earth! What else?
 Ham. O, but she'll keep her word.
 Ham. Of him, sir.
 Ham. Of nothing. Bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
 Ham. O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand
 Ham. O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
 Ham. O my prophetic soul!
 Ham. One.
 Ham. On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares!
 Ham. O, reform it altogether! And let those that play your clowns
 Ham. Or like a whale.
 Ham. Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow, sweet lord!
 Ham. O that this too too solid flesh would melt,
 Ham. O, throw away the worser part of it,
 Ham. O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd.
 Ham. O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother! But is there no
 Ham. Pale or red?
 Ham. Rest, rest, perturbed spirit! So, gentlemen,
 Ham. Safely stow'd.
 Ham. Saw? who?
 Ham. Seems, madam, Nay, it is. I know not 'seems.'
 Ham. She well instructs me.
 Ham. Sir, I cannot.
 Ham. Sir, I lack advancement.
 Ham. Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his Majesty,
 Ham. Sir, a whole history.
 Ham. Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you; though, I
 Ham. Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
 Ham. Sir, my good friend- I'll change that name with you.
 Ham. Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here that old men
 Ham. So be it!
 Ham. So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for I'll have a
 Ham. So much for this, sir; now shall you see the other.
 Ham. So you must take your husbands.- Begin, murtherer. Pox, leave
 Ham. Speak. I am bound to hear.
 Ham. Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounc'd it to you,
 Ham. Such an act
 Ham. 'Swounds, show me what thou't do.
 Ham. That I can keep your counsel, and not mine own. Besides, to be
 Ham. That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no
 Ham. That is Laertes,
 Ham. That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
 Ham. That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once. How the
 Ham. That's two of his weapons- but well.
 Ham. That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights
 Ham. The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
 Ham. The King my father?
 Ham. 'The Mousetrap.' Marry, how? Tropically. This play is the
 Ham. The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
 Ham. The body is with the King, but the King is not with the body.
 Ham. The concernancy, sir? Why do we wrap the gentleman in our more
 Ham. 'The mobled queen'?
 Ham. Then I would you were so honest a man.
 Ham. Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd
 Ham. Then came each actor on his ass-
 Ham. Then is doomsday near! But your news is not true. Let me
 Ham. Then saw you not his face?
 Ham. Then will I come to my mother by-and-by.- They fool me to the
 Ham. Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her
 Ham. The phrase would be more germane to the matter if we could
 Ham. The point envenom'd too?
 Ham. There's another. Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer?
 Ham. There's letters seal'd; and my two schoolfellows,
 Ham. There's neer a villain dwelling in all Denmark
 Ham. These tedious old fools!
 Ham. They are coming to the play. I must be idle.
 Ham. They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that. I
 Ham. This?
 Ham. This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
 Ham. Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine. 'Tis for
 Ham. Thou pray'st not well.
 Ham. Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats
 Ham. 'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment hath the daintier
 Ham. 'Tis very strange.
 Ham. 'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.-
 Ham. To be, or not to be- that is the question:
 Ham. To this effect, sir, after what flourish your nature will.
 Ham. To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may not
 Ham. Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
 Ham. Up from my cabin,
 Ham. Upon my sword.
 Ham. Upon the talk of the poisoning?
 Ham. Upon what ground?
 Ham. Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
 Ham. Very well. Follow that lord- and look you mock him not.
 Ham. Very well, my lord.
 Ham. Well, God-a-mercy.
 Ham. We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a
 Ham. Well said, old mole! Canst work i' th' earth so fast?
 Ham. We shall know by this fellow. The players cannot keep counsel;
 Ham. We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have you any
 Ham. What?
 Ham. What, are they children? Who maintains 'em? How are they
 Ham. What call you the carriages?
 Ham. What did you enact?
 Ham. What, frighted with false fire?
 Ham. What, ho, Horatio!
 Ham. What hour now?
 Ham. What imports the nomination of this gentleman
 Ham. What, look'd he frowningly.
 Ham. What man dost thou dig it for?
 Ham. What's his weapon?
 Ham. What's the matter now?
 Ham. What, the fair Ophelia?
 Ham. What woman then?
 Ham. Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak! I'll go no further.
 Ham. Who, I?
 Ham. Who commands them, sir?
 Ham. Who is to be buried in't?
 Ham. Whose was it?
 Ham. Why,
 Ham. Why,
 Ham. Why?
 Ham. Why, I will fight with him upon this theme
 Ham. Why, anything- but to th' purpose. You were sent for; and
 Ham. Why did you laugh then, when I said 'Man delights not me'?
 Ham. Why, e'en so! and now my Lady Worm's, chapless, and knock'd
 Ham. Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
 Ham. Why he more than another?
 Ham. Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
 Ham. Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You
 Ham. Why, look you there! Look how it steals away!
 Ham. Why, man, they did make love to this employment!
 Ham. Why, right! You are in the right!
 Ham. Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
 Ham. Why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good
 Ham. Why, what should be the fear?
 Ham. With drink, sir?
 Ham. Words, words, words.
 Ham. Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
 Ham. You are welcome.
 Ham. You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more
 Ham. Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell.
 Ham. Yours, yours. [Exit Osric.] He does well to commend it
 Ham. Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to
 Ham. You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so
 Ham. [aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind!
 Ham. [aside] Nay then, I have an eye of you.- If you love me, hold
 Ham. [aside] Wormwood, wormwood!
 Ham. [aside to Horatio] Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a
 Ham. [comes forward] What is he whose grief
 Ham. [draws] How now? a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead!
 Hamlet comes back. What would you undertake
 Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
 Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
 [Hamlet moves him to put on his hat.]
 Hamlet, son to the former, and nephew to the present king.
 Hamlet the Dane. [Leaps in after Laertes.
 Ham. (within) Mother, mother, mother!
 Haply the seas, and countries different,
 Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those
 Hath clawed me in his clutch,
 Hath given me this. Now gather, and surmise.
 Hath in the skirts of Norway, here and there,
 Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
 Hath op'd his ponderous and marble jaws
 Hath scald thee for herself. For thou hast been
 Hath turn'd itself on me. Lo, here I lie,
 Hautboys play. The dumb show enters.
 Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre
 Have by the very cunning of the scene
 Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
 Have of your audience been most free and bounteous.
 Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,
 Have you so slander any moment leisure
 Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
 Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow
 He answers:
 He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman.
 He closes with you in this consequence:
 Hecuba.
 He falls to such perusal of my face
 He hath not fail'd to pester us with message
 He is dead and gone;
 He is gone, he is gone,
 He likewise gives a frock or livery,
 Help, help, ho!
 He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
 He may not, as unvalued persons do,
 He never gave commandment for their death.
 He never will come again.
 He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound
 Her brother is in secret come from France;
 Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows.
 Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
 Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
 Here in the lobby.
 Here is your husband, like a mildew'd ear
 Here stooping to your clemency,
 Here's to thy health.
 Here's yet some liquor left.
 Here was a gentleman of Normandy.
 Her father and myself (lawful espials)
 Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home
 Her mood will needs be pitied.
 He seem'd to find his way without his eyes,
 He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps. Say on; come to
 He should the bearers put to sudden death,
 [He] sleeps.
 He's lov'd of the distracted multitude,
 He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
 He swore had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
 He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
 He that hath kill'd my king, and whor'd my mother;
 'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
 He took my father grossly, full of bread,
 (Hey non nony, nony, hey nony)
 High on a stage be placed to the view;
 Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
 His access to me.
 His beard was as white as snow,
 His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
 His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
 His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
 His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
 His further gait herein, in that the levies,
 His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
 His liberty is full of threats to all-
 His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
 His means of death, his obscure funeral-
 His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
 His silence will sit drooping.
 Hoist with his own petar; and 't shall go hard
 Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
 Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood;
 Holds such an enmity with blood of man
 Hold you the watch to-night?
 Honour'd, belov'd, and haply one as kind
 Hor. A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
 Hor. A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
 Hor. And then it started, like a guilty thing
 Hor. A piece of him.
 Hor. As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
 Hor. As thou art to thyself.
 Hor. A truant disposition, good my lord.
 Hor. Ay, good my lord.
 Hor. Ay, my lord.
 Hor. Ay, my lord, And of calveskins too.
 Hor. Before my God, I might not this believe
 Hor. Be rul'd. You shall not go.
 Hor. Custom hath made it in him a Property of easiness.
 Hor. Do, if it will not stand.
 Hor. Do not, my lord!
 Hor. E'en so.
 Hor. E'en so, my lord.
 Hor. Friends to this ground.
 Hor. Good my lord, be quiet.
 Hor. Good my lord, tell it.
 Hor. Hail to your lordship!
 Hor. Half a share.
 Hor. Have after. To what issue wail this come?
 Hor. Heaven secure him!
 Hor. Heaven will direct it.
 Hor. Here, sweet lord, at your service.
 Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination.
 Hor. How was this seal'd?
 Hor. I beseech you.
 Hor. I did very well note him.
 Hor. If your mind dislike anything, obey it. I will forestall their
 Hor. Indeed? I heard it not. It then draws near the season
 Hor. Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon.
 Hor. In faith,
 Hor. In what particular thought to work I know not;
 Hor. I saw him once. He was a goodly king.
 Hor. Is it a custom?
 Hor. Is't possible?
 Hor. It beckons you to go away with it,
 Hor. I think it lacks of twelve.
 Hor. It is a nipping and an eager air.
 Hor. It might, my lord.
 Hor. It must be shortly known to him from England
 Hor. It was, as I have seen it in his life,
 Hor. It would have much amaz'd you.
 Hor. I warr'nt it will.
 Hor. Let him bless thee too.
 Hor. Let them come in.
 Hor. Look, my lord, it comes!
 Hor. Most constantly.
 Hor. Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
 Hor. My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
 Hor. My lord, I did;
 Hor. My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
 Hor. My lord, the King your father.
 Hor. Nay, good my lord -
 Hor. Nay, very pale.
 Hor. Never believe it.
 Hor. No, by no means!
 Hor. Not I, my lord, by heaven!
 Hor. Not a jot more, my lord.
 Hor. Not from his mouth,
 Hor. Not when I saw't.
 Hor. Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince,
 Hor. O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
 Hor. Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
 Hor. O, my dear lord!
 Hor. O, where, my lord?
 Hor. O, yes, my lord! He wore his beaver up.
 Hor. Peace! Who comes here?
 Hor. Propose the oath, my lord.
 Hor. Remember it, my lord!
 Hor. Season your admiration for a while
 Hor. So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
 Hor. So have I heard and do in part believe it.
 Hor. Stay! Speak, speak! I charge thee speak!
 Hor. That can I.
 Hor. That is most certain.
 Hor. There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
 Hor. There's no offence, my lord.
 Hor. The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
 Hor. These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
 Hor. They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
 Hor. This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.
 Hor. 'Tis here!
 Hor. Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
 Hor. 'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
 Hor. 'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
 Hor. Two nights together had these gentlemen
 Hor. Very well, my lord.
 Hor. Well, my lord.
 Hor. Well, sit we down,
 Hor. What are they that would speak with me?
 Hor. What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
 Hor. What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
 Hor. What is it you will see?
 Hor. What is't, my lord? We will.
 Hor. What news, my lord?
 Hor. What's that, my lord?
 Hor. While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
 Hor. Why, what a king is this!
 Hor. You might have rhym'd.
 Hor. You will lose this wager, my lord.
 Hor. [aside] His purse is empty already. All's golden words are
 Hor. [aside to Hamlet] I knew you must be edified by the margent
 Hor [aside to Hamlet] Is't not possible to understand in another
 Hor. [aside to Hamlet] No, my good lord.
 Horatio. A fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy. He
 Horatio, friend to Hamlet.
 Horatio!- or I do forget myself.
 Hor. (reads the letter) 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlook'd
 Hor. (within) My lord, my lord!
 How all occasions do inform against me
 How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
 How does my good Lord Hamlet?
 How does your honour for this many a day?
 How dost thou, good lord?' This might be my Lord Such-a-one, that
 Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun. Exit.
 How in my words somever she be shent,
 How much I had to do to calm his rage I
 How now O What hath befall'n?
 How now, Ophelia? What's the matter?
 How now? What news?
 How now, my lord? Will the King hear this piece of work?
 How now, sweet queen?
 How should I your true-love know
 How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
 How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself
 How these things came about. So shall You hear
 How to forget that learning; but, sir, now
 How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
 Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
 Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
 Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
 I am afeard You make a wanton of me.
 I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
 I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
 I am more an antique Roman than a Dane.
 I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
 I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my
 I be so able as now.
 I bought an unction of a mountebank,
 I can no more. The King, the King's to blame.
 I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
 I cannot live to hear the news from England,
 I chiefly lov'd. 'Twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it
 I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
 I could not but by her. The other motive
 I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
 I did repel his letters and denied
 I do beseech you give him leave to go.
 I do not know from what part of the world
 I do not set my life at a pin's fee;
 I do receive your offer'd love like love,
 I do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so,
 I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come!
 If Hamlet from himself be taken away,
 If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
 If I had play'd the desk or table book,
 If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
 If by direct or by collateral hand
 If circumstances lead me, I will find
 If damned custom have not braz'd it so
 If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
 If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
 If his chief good and market of his time
 If his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or whensoever, provided
 If it be made of penetrable stuff;
 If it be so- as so 'tis put on me,
 If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do
 If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
 If one could match you. The scrimers of their nation
 If she unmask her beauty to the moon.
 If't be th' affliction of his love, or no,
 If there be any good thing to be done,
 If this did blast in proof. Soft! let me see.
 If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
 If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
 If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart,
 If thou didst ever thy dear father love-
 If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
 If with too credent ear you list his songs,
 If you desire to know the certainty
 If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
 If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
 If you oppos'd them. Sir, this report of his
 I had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on.
 I had my father's signet in my purse,
 I had not quoted him. I fear'd he did but trifle
 I ha't!
 I have a daughter (have while she is mine),
 I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze
 I have a voice and precedent of peace
 I have in quick determination
 I have seen myself, and serv'd against, the French,
 I have some rights of memory in this kingdom
 I have sworn't.
 I have taken note of it, the age is grown so picked that the toe
 I, his sole son, do this same villain send
 I hold it fit that we shake hands and part;
 I hold my duty as I hold my soul,
 I hop'd thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
 I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
 I'll blessing beg of you.- For this same lord,
 I'll board him presently. O, give me leave.
 I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
 I'll cross it, though it blast me.- Stay illusion!
 I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
 I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.-
 I'll rant as well as thou.
 I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
 I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench,
 I'll visit you.
 I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
 I lov'd you ever. But it is no matter.
 I lov'd your father, and we love ourself,
 I made to her in marriage, and to decline
 Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
 Importing Denmark's health, and England's too,
 Importing health and graveness. Two months since
 Importing the surrender of those lands
 I must be cruel, only to be kind;
 In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
 In Mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
 In censure of his seeming.
 Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
 In dreadful secrecy impart they did,
 In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
 In equal scale weighing delight and dole,
 I never gave you aught.
 Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
 In filial obligation for some term
 In further evil?
 In general synod take away her power;
 In going back to school in Wittenberg,
 'In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'
 In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
 In honourable fashion.
 In hugger-mugger to inter him; Poor Ophelia
 In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
 In neither aught, or in extremity.
 In noise so rude against me?
 In obstinate condolement is a course
 In the corrupted currents of this world
 In the dead vast and middle of the night
 In thee there is not half an hour of life.
 In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
 In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
 In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes,
 In this distracted globe. Remember thee?
 Into a tow'ring passion.
 Into the chapel. I pray you haste in this.
 Into the madness wherein now he raves,
 In which the majesty of buried Denmark
 In youth when I did love, did love,
 I once did hold it, as our statists do,
 I pray thee stay with us, go not to Wittenberg.
 I pray you go with me.
 I pray you, now receive them.
 I prithee take thy fingers from my throat;
 I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
 Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
 'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
 I saw him yesterday, or t'other day,
 I say, away!- Go on. I'll follow thee.
 Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
 Is by a forged process of my death
 Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
 I shall not look upon his like again.
 I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
 I should have fatted all the region kites
 Is it not monstrous that this player here,
 Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
 Is not this something more than fantasy?
 Is not to stir without great argument,
 Is now most still, most secret, and most grave,
 Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
 Is strict in his arrest) O, I could tell you-
 I stand aloof, and will no reconcilement
 I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
 I stay too long. But here my father comes.
 Is the great love the general gender bear him,
 Is the main motive of our preparations,
 Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
 Is thought-sick at the act.
 Is very cunning in.
 'It came to pass, as most like it was.'
 It could not move thus.
 It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
 It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
 It had been so with us, had we been there.
 It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
 I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
 I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
 It is 'Adieu, adieu! Remember me.'
 It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
 It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you.
 It is a poison temper'd by himself.
 It is most retrograde to our desire;
 It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
 It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
 It lifted up it head and did address
 It may be death.
 I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune.
 Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
 It sends some precious instance of itself
 It shall as level to your judgment pierce
 It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
 It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
 It warms the very sickness in my heart
 It was against your Highness; whereat griev'd,
 It waves me forth again. I'll follow it.
 It waves you to a more removed ground.
 It will be laid to us, whose providence
 It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
 I will be brief. Your noble son is mad.
 I will bestow him, and will answer well
 I will requite your loves. So, fare you well.
 I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
 I will win for him if I can; if not, I will gain nothing but my
 I would know that.
 I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
 I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
 Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels,
 King. A Norman.
 King. Alas, alas!
 King. And can you by no drift of circumstance
 King. Arm you, I pray you, to th', speedy voyage;
 King. As of a man faithful and honourable.
 King. At supper? Where?
 King. A very riband in the cap of youth-
 King. Ay, Hamlet.
 King. Break not your sleeps for that. You must not think
 King. Bring him before us.
 King. But how hath she
 King. But where is he?
 King. Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
 King. Conceit upon her father.
 King. Dead.
 King. Do you think 'tis this?
 King. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
 King. Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you.
 King. Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard.
 King. From Hamlet? Who brought them?
 King. Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
 King. Gertrude, do not drink.
 King. Give me some light! Away!
 King. Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
 King. Good Laertes,
 King. Go seek him there. [To Attendants.]
 King. Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,-
 King. Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in't?
 King. Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
 King. He made confession of you;
 King. How do you, pretty lady?
 King. How fares our cousin Hamlet?
 King. How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
 King. How long hath she been thus?
 King. How may we try it further?
 King. I do believe you think what now you speak;
 King. I do not fear it, I have seen you both;
 King. I do not think't.
 King. If it be so, Laertes
 King. I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet. These words are not
 King. I have sent to seek him and to find the body.
 King. I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
 King. I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him.
 King. It falls right.
 King. It likes us well;
 King. It shall be so.
 King. Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
 King. Laertes, was your father dear to you?
 King. Laertes, you shall hear them.
 King. Let him demand his fill.
 King. Let's follow, Gertrude.
 King. Let's further think of this,
 King. Love? his affections do not that way tend;
 King. No place indeed should murther sanctuarize;
 King. Not that I know.
 King. Not that I think you did not love your father;
 King. Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
 King. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
 King. O Gertrude, come away!
 King. O, for two special reasons,
 King. O heavy deed!
 King. O, he is mad, Laertes.
 King. O, speak of that! That do I long to hear.
 King. Our son shall win.
 King. O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt.
 King. Part them! They are incens'd.
 King. Pluck thein asunder.
 King. Pretty Ophelia!
 King. Set me the stoups of wine upon that table.
 King. She sounds to see them bleed.
 King. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
 King. So you shall;
 King. Stay, give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
 King. Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
 King. Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
 King. Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
 King. Thanks, dear my lord.
 King. The doors are broke.
 King. There's matter in these sighs. These profound heaves
 King. The very same.
 King. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
 King. Thou still hast been the father of good news.
 King. Thy loving father, Hamlet.
 King. Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
 King. 'Tis Hamlet's character. 'Naked!'
 King. 'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile.
 King. 'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
 King. To thine own peace. If he be now return'd
 King. We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
 King. Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
 King. Well, we shall sift him.
 King. We will try it.
 King. What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
 King. What dost thou mean by this?
 King. What do you call the play?
 King. What is the cause, Laertes,
 King. Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
 King. Where is Polonius?
 King. Who shall stay you?
 King. Why, now You speak
 King. Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
 King. Will you know them then?
 King. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
 King. [aside] It is the poison'd cup; it is too late.
 King. [aside] O, 'tis too true!
 King, father, royal Dane. O, answer me?
 King. [rises] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below.
 Laer. A Norman was't?
 Laer. A document in madness! Thoughts and remembrance fitted.
 Laer. Alas, then she is drown'd?
 Laer. And so have I a noble father lost;
 Laer. A touch, a touch; I do confess't.
 Laer. Ay my lord,
 Laer. Come, my lord. They play.
 Laer. Come, one for me.
 Laer. Do you see this, O God?
 Laer. Drown'd! O, where?
 Laer. Farewell. Exit.
 Laer. Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well
 Laer. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favour,
 Laer. Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
 Laer. Have at you now!
 Laer. He is justly serv'd.
 Laer. How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
 Laer. How now? What noise is that?
 Laer. I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come!
 Laer. I am satisfied in nature,
 Laer. I know him well. He is the broach indeed
 Laer. I pray you give me leave.
 Laer. I thank you. Keep the door. [Exeunt his Followers.]
 Laer. It is here, Hamlet. Hamlet, thou art slain;
 Laer. It well appears. But tell me
 Laer. I will do't!
 Laer. Know you the hand?
 Laer. Lay her i' th' earth;
 Laer. Let this be so.
 Laer. Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
 Laer. Must there no more be done?
 Laer. My dread lord,
 Laer. My lord, I'll hit him now.
 Laer. My lord, I will be rul'd;
 Laer. My necessaries are embark'd. Farewell.
 Laer. My will, not all the world!
 Laer. No.
 Laer. None but his enemies.
 Laer. O, fear me not!
 Laer. O, treble woe
 Laer. Say you so? Come on. Play.
 Laer. That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard;
 Laer. The devil take thy soul!
 Laer. Think it no more.
 Laer. This is too heavy; let me see another.
 Laer. This nothing's more than matter.
 Laer. Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
 Laer. To cut his throat i' th' church!
 Laer. To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms
 Laer. Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
 Laer. Upon my life, Lamound.
 Laer. Well, again!
 Laer. What ceremony else?
 Laer. What ceremony else?
 Laer. What out of this, my lord?
 Laer. What part is that, my lord?
 Laer. Where is my father?
 Laer. Where is this king?- Sirs, staid you all without.
 Laer. Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric.
 Laer. Why ask you this?
 Laer. You mock me, sir.
 Laer. [aside] And yet it is almost against my conscience.
 Laertes before you fall to play.
 [Laertes falls.]
 'Laertes shall be king! Laertes king!'
 Laertes, son to Polonius.
 [Laertes wounds Hamlet; then] in scuffling, they
 Larded all with sweet flowers;
 Larded with many several sorts of reasons,
 Last, and as such containing as all these,
 Lay not that flattering unction to your soul
 Leaps in the grave.
 Leave us.
 Leave wringing of your hinds. Peace! sit you down
 Led by a delicate and tender prince,
 Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter,
 Lest with this piteous action you convert
 Let Hercules himself do what he may,
 Let all the battlements their ordnance fire;
 Let come what comes; only I'll be reveng'd
 Let him go, Gertrude. Do not fear our person.
 Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
 Let in the maid, that out a maid
 Let it be tenable in your silence still;
 Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
 Let me be no assistant for a state,
 Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell
 Let me not think on't! Frailty, thy name is woman!-
 Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd evil
 Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
 Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
 Let shame say what it will. When these are gone,
 Let the birds fly, and like the famous ape,
 Let the bloat King tempt you again to bed;
 Let us impart what we have seen to-night
 [Lifts up the arras and sees Polonius.]
 Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
 Like Niobe, all tears- why she, even she
 Like a good child and a true gentleman.
 Like quills upon the fretful porpentine.
 Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
 Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places
 Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
 Lives almost by his looks; and for myself,-
 Looking before and after, gave us not
 Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
 Look to't, I charge you. Come your ways.
 Look where he goes even now out at the portal!
 Look you, I'll go pray.
 'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.
 Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'd,
 Lord. My lord, his Majesty commended him to you by young Osric, who
 Lord. The King and Queen and all are coming down.
 Lord. The Queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to
 Lords, ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers, Attendants.
 Lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be. God be at
 Lost by his father, with all bands of law,
 Luc. Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
 Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
 Mad let us grant him then. And now remains
 Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go. Exeunt.
 Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
 Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will,
 Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
 [Makes a pass through the arras and] kills Polonius.
 Makes mouths at the invisible event,
 Makes us traduc'd and tax'd of other nations;
 Makes vow before his uncle never more
 Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
 Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
 Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
 Make you to ravel all this matter out,
 Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
 Mar. And liegemen to the Dane.
 Mar. Good now, sit down, and tell me he that knows,
 Mar. Holla, Bernardo!
 Mar. Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
 Mar. How is't, my noble lord?
 Mar. Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
 Mar. Is it not like the King?
 Mar. It faded on the crowing of the cock.
 Mar. It is offended.
 Mar. Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him.
 Mar. Look with what courteous action
 Mar. Lord Hamlet!
 Mar. My good lord!
 Mar. My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
 Mar. Nay, let's follow him.
 Mar. No, it is struck.
 Mar. Nor I, my lord.
 Mar. Nor I, my lord- in faith.
 Mar. O, farewell, honest soldier.
 Mar. O, wonderful!
 Mar. Peace! break thee off! Look where it comes again!
 Mar. Question it, Horatio.
 Mar. Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
 Mar. Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
 Mar. Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
 Mar. Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
 Mar. 'Tis gone!
 Mar. 'Tis gone and will not answer.
 Mar. We have sworn, my lord, already.
 Mar. What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
 Mar. You shall not go, my lord.
 Marcellus?
 Marcellus, Officer.
 (Marcellus and Bernardo) on their watch
 Marcellus, officer.
 [March within.]
 Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
 Mark you,
 May be a devil; and the devil hath power
 May do t' express his love and friending to you,
 May fit us to our shape. If this should fall,
 May give his saying deed; which is no further
 May one be pardon'd and retain th' offence?
 May sweep to my revenge.
 May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
 Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour.
 Meet what I would have well, and it destroy,
 Mess. Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
 Mess. Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not.
 Mess. Save Yourself, my lord:
 Methought it was very sweet;
 Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
 Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
 Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
 Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
 More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
 More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
 Moreover that we much did long to see you,
 More relative than this. The play's the thing
 More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
 More than in words?
 Most free in his reply.
 Most generous, and free from all contriving,
 Most holy and religious fear it is
 Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust
 Most necessary 'tis that we forget
 Most throughly for my father.
 Most welcome home! Exeunt Ambassadors.
 Mother, good night.- Indeed, this counsellor
 Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.
 Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
 Must give us pause. There's the respect
 Must (like a whore) unpack my heart with words
 Must render up myself.
 My brother shall know of it; and so I thank you for your good
 My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
 My custom always of the afternoon,
 My father, in his habit as he liv'd!
 My father- methinks I see my father.
 My father's brother, but no more like my father
 My father's spirit- in arms? All is not well.
 My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
 (My fears forgetting manners) to unseal
 My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to
 My head should be struck off.
 My liege, and madam, to expostulate
 My lord, not I.
 My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
 My operant powers their functions leave to do.
 My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
 My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
 My soul is full of discord and dismay.
 My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
 My stern effects. Then what I have to do
 My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
 My tables! Meet it is I set it down
 My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
 My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth! Exit.
 My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites-
 My too much changed son.- Go, some of you,
 My uncle?
 My virtue or my plague, be it either which,-
 Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
 Nay, come, let's go together.
 Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
 Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
 Never departed more.
 Never to rise again. Thy mother's poison'd.
 Never to speak of this that you have heard:
 New lighted on a heaven-kissing hill:
 Next, Your son gone, and he most violent author
 No.
 No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
 No hat upon his head, his stockings foul'd,
 No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
 No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day
 No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
 No medicine in the world can do thee good.
 No more.
 No more; and by a sleep to say we end
 No more, sweet Hamlet!
 No more to undertake it, I will work him
 None wed the second but who killed the first.
 No noble rite nor formal ostentation,-
 No, no, he is dead;
 No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
 No, not to stay the finding of the axe,
 Nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
 Nor customary suits of solemn black,
 No reckoning made, but sent to my account
 Nor sense to ecstacy was ne'er so thrall'd
 Nor shall you do my ear that violence
 Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
 Nor thine on me! Dies.
 Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
 Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
 Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
 Not of that dye which their investments show,
 No traveller returns- puzzles the will,
 No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
 Not shriving time allow'd.
 Now I am alone.
 Now falls on Priam.
 Now fear I this will give it start again;
 Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
 Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
 Now is be total gules, horridly trick'd
 Now, out of this-
 Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead
 Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
 'Now the King drinks to Hamlet.' Come, begin.
 Now wears his crown.
 Now what my love is, proof hath made you know;
 (O God! a beast that wants discourse of reason
 O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there,
 O, a Pit of clay for to be made
 Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
 Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
 'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to
 O'erbears Your offices. The rabble call him lord;
 O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,
 O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
 O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
 Of Hamlet's transformation. So I call it,
 Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
 Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
 Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters;
 Of all their conference. If she find him not,
 Of bell and burial.
 Of blue Olympus.
 Of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts;
 Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples,
 Of deaths put on by cunning and forc'd cause;
 Of each new-hatch'd, unfledg'd comrade. Beware
 Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in,
 Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
 Of general assault.
 Of habits evil, is angel yet in this,
 Of him that brought them.
 Of his affection to me.
 Of his behaviour.
 Of his own just remove; the people muddied,
 Of his true state.
 Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief;
 Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd;
 Of man and country-
 Of mighty opposites.
 Of mine own eyes.
 Of my true mother.
 Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' th' air to stick.
 Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
 Of these dilated articles allow. [Gives a paper.]
 Of the unworthiest siege.
 Of thinking too precisely on th' event,-
 Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress
 Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
 Of those effects for which I did the murther-
 Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
 Of violent birth, but poor validity;
 Of your dear father's death, is't writ in Your revenge
 Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
 O good Horatio, what a wounded name
 O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
 O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt
 O heavens! is't possible a young maid's wits
 O heavy burthen!
 O, ho!
 Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
 O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
 O, methought there- a- was nothing- a- meet.
 O most pernicious woman!
 O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;
 On Fortinbras. He has my dying voice.
 On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys,
 On Fortune's cap we are not the very button.
 On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,
 'One fair daughter, and no more,
 One scene of it comes near the circumstance,
 One word more, good lady.
 On plots and errors happen.
 On such regards of safety and allowance
 On wholesome life usurp immediately.
 Oph. And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
 Oph. At home, my lord.
 Oph. Ay, my lord.
 Oph. Ay, my lord.
 Oph. Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
 Oph. Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?
 Oph. Do you doubt that?
 Oph. Good my lord,
 Oph. He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
 Oph. He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
 Oph. I do not know, my lord, what I should think,
 Oph. I hope all will be well. We must be patient; but I cannot
 Oph. Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't!
 Oph. Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
 Oph. I shall obey, my lord.
 Oph. I shall th' effect of this good lesson keep
 Oph. I think nothing, my lord.
 Oph. I was the more deceived.
 Oph. Madam, I wish it may.
 Oph. My honour'd lord, you know right well you did,
 Oph. My lord?
 Oph. My lord, I do not know,
 Oph. My lord, I have remembrances of yours
 Oph. My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
 Oph. My lord, he hath importun'd me with love
 Oph. Nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.
 Oph. No more but so?
 Oph. No, my good lord; but, as you did command,
 Oph. No, my lord.
 Oph. O heavenly powers, restore him!
 Oph. O, help him, you sweet heavens!
 Oph. O my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
 Oph. O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
 Oph. Pray let's have no words of this; but when they ask, you what
 Oph. Pray you mark.
 Oph. Say you? Nay, pray You mark.
 Oph. (Sings)
 Oph. So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
 Oph. Still better, and worse.
 Oph. The King rises.
 Oph. There's fennel for you, and columbines. There's rue for you,
 Oph. There's rosemary, that's for remembrance. Pray you, love,
 Oph. 'Tis brief, my lord.
 Oph. 'Tis in my memory lock'd,
 Oph. Well, God dild you! They say the owl was a baker's daughter.
 Oph. What is, my lord?
 Oph. What means this, my lord?
 Oph. What means your lordship?
 Oph. Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark?
 Oph. Will he tell us what this show meant?
 Oph. You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
 Oph. You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
 Oph. You are merry, my lord.
 Oph. You are naught, you are naught! I'll mark the play.
 Oph. You must sing 'A-down a-down, and you call him a-down-a.' O,
 Ophelia,'-
 Ophelia, daughter to Polonius.
 Oph. (sings)
 Oph. (sings)
 Oph. (sings)
 Or I could make a prologue to my brains,
 Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
 Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
 Or but a sickly part of one true sense
 Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
 Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
 Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
 Or for some frontier?
 Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
 Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
 Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed;
 Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
 Or like a creature native and indued
 Or look'd upon this love with idle sight?
 Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
 Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think,
 Or not at all.
 Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
 (O royal knavery!), an exact command,
 Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
 Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
 Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
 Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
 Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
 Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
 Or then, or then, with such or such; and, as you say,
 Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
 Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
 Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
 Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
 Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
 O, say!
 O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
 O, speak!
 Osr. A hit, a very palpable hit.
 Osr. Ay, my good lord.
 Osr. Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as 'twere- I cannot
 Osr. How is't, Laertes?
 Osr. I commend my duty to your lordship.
 Osr. I know you are not ignorant-
 Osr. I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
 Osr. I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him
 Osr. I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
 Osr. It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
 Osr. Look to the Queen there, ho!
 Osr. Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith. Sir, here is
 Osr. Nothing neither way.
 Osr. Of Laertes?
 Osr. Rapier and dagger.
 Osr. Shall I redeliver you e'en so?
 Osr. Sir?
 Osr. Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I should impart
 Osr. The King, sir, hath laid that, in a dozen passes between
 Osr. The King, sir, hath wager'd with him six Barbary horses;
 Osr. The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
 Osr. You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is-
 Osr. Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
 Osr. Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
 Osr. Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
 Osric, courtier.
 O, step between her and her fighting soul
 O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
 Other. But is this law?
 Other. Go to!
 Other. I tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight.
 Other. Marry, now I can tell!
 Other. Mass, I cannot tell.
 Other. Nay, but hear you, Goodman Delver!
 Other. The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand
 Other. Was he a gentleman?
 Other. Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or a
 Other. Why, he had none.
 Other. Why, 'tis found so.
 Other. Will you ha' the truth an't? If this had not been a
 O, the recorders! Let me see one. To withdraw with you- why do
 O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
 O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
 O thou vile king,
 Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
 Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,
 Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
 Our indiscretion sometime serves us well
 Our purpose may hold there.- But stay, what noise,
 Our sovereign process, which imports at full,
 Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
 Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own.
 Our wills and fates do so contrary run
 Out of his lunacies.
 Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
 Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
 Out of the shot and danger of desire.
 Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods,
 O, vengeance!
 Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
 Over the nasty sty!
 O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
 O what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
 O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
 O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
 O, you must wear your rue with a difference! There's a daisy. I
 Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
 Passing through nature to eternity.
 Pays homage to us,- thou mayst not coldly set
 Perchance 'twill walk again.
 Perpend.
 Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
 Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are
 1. Play. 'Anon he finds him,
 1. Play. Ay, my lord.
 1. Play. Ay, my lord.
 1. Play. 'But who, O who, had seen the mobled queen-'
 1. Play. 'Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames
 1. Play. What speech, my good lord?
 Player. I hope we have reform'd that indifferently with us, sir.
 Player. I warrant your honour.
 Players.
 Play something like the murther of my father
 Pleasant and helpful to him!
 Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
 Pol. Affection? Pooh! You speak like a green girl,
 Pol. 'And in part him, but,' you may say, 'not well.
 Pol. And let him ply his music.
 Pol. And the Queen too, and that presently.
 Pol. And then, sir, does 'a this- 'a does- What was I about to say?
 Pol. At 'closes in the consequence'- Ay, marry!
 Pol. At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.
 Pol. Away, I do beseech you, both away
 Pol. Ay, fashion you may call it. Go to, go to!
 Pol. Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
 Pol. Ay, springes to catch woodcocks! I do know,
 Pol. By th' mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.
 Pol. Come, go with me. I will go seek the King.
 Pol. Come, sirs.
 Pol. Do you know me, my lord?
 Pol. Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
 Pol. Farewell!
 Pol. Fare you well, my lord.
 Pol. Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good
 Pol. Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
 Pol. Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
 Pol. Give o'er the play.
 Pol. God b' wi' ye, fare ye well!
 Pol. Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful. [Reads.]
 Pol. Hath there been such a time- I would fain know that-
 Pol. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
 Pol. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
 Pol. He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.
 Pol. Honest, my lord?
 Pol. I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill'd i' th' Capitol; Brutus
 Pol. If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I
 Pol. I have, my lord.
 Pol. I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord.
 Pol. I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
 Pol. Indeed, that is out o' th' air. [Aside] How pregnant sometimes
 Pol. It is back'd like a weasel.
 Pol. It shall do well. But yet do I believe
 Pol. I will say so. Exit.
 Pol. I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
 Pol. Look, whe'r he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's
 Pol. Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
 Pol. Mad for thy love?
 Pol. Marry, I will teach you! Think yourself a baby
 Pol. Marry, sir, here's my drift,
 Pol. Marry, well bethought!
 Pol. Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir,
 Pol. My lord, I have news to tell you.
 Pol. My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
 Pol. My lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
 Pol. My lord, the Queen would speak with you, and presently.
 Pol. Not I, my lord.
 Pol. Observe his inclination in yourself.
 Pol. Ophelia, walk you here.- Gracious, so please you,
 Pol. Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
 Pol. That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.
 Pol. That hath made him mad.
 Pol. That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.
 Pol. That's very true, my lord.
 Pol. The actors are come hither, my lord.
 Pol. The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,
 Pol. The time invites you. Go, your servants tend.
 Pol. This business is well ended.
 Pol. This is too long.
 Pol. 'Tis most true;
 Pol. Upon my honour-
 Pol. Very like a whale.
 Pol. Well be with you, gentlemen!
 Pol. What do you think of me?
 Pol. What follows then, my lord?
 Pol. What is't, Ophelia, he hath said to you?
 Pol. What is the matter, my lord?
 Pol. What said he?
 Pol. What treasure had he, my lord?
 Pol. Wherefore should you do this?
 Pol. With what, i' th' name of God I
 Pol. Yet here, Laertes? Aboard, aboard, for shame!
 Pol. You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.
 Pol. You know sometimes he walks four hours together
 Pol. You shall do marvell's wisely, good Reynaldo,
 Pol. [aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter. Yet
 Pol. [aside] Still on my daughter.
 Pol. [aside] Though this be madness, yet there is a method in't.-
 Pol. [behind] O, I am slain!
 Pol. [behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
 Polonius.
 Polonius, Lord Chamberlain.
 [Polonius hides behind the arras.]
 Pol. [points to his head and shoulder] Take this from this, if this
 Pol. [to the King] O, ho! do you mark that?
 Popp'd in between th' election and my hopes;
 Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
 Pours the poison in his ears.
 Pray you be round with him.
 Prepare to play.
 Priest. Her obsequies have been as far enlarg'd
 Priest. No more be done.
 Pro. For us, and for our tragedy,
 Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
 Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
 Purpose is but the slave to memory,
 Pursued my life.
 [Puts down the skull.]
 Put your dread pleasures more into command
 Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide;
 Queen. Alack,
 Queen. Alack, what noise is this?
 Queen. Alas, he's mad!
 Queen. Alas, how is't with you,
 Queen. Alas, look here, my lord!
 Queen. Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
 Queen. As kill a king?
 Queen. Ay, amen!
 Queen. Ay me, what act,
 Queen. Bestow this place on us a little while.
 Queen. Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
 Queen. But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
 Queen. But not by him!
 Queen. Calmly, good Laertes.
 Queen. Came this from Hamlet to her?
 Queen. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
 Queen. Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
 Queen. Come, let me wipe thy face.
 Queen. Did he receive you well?
 Queen. Did you assay him
 Queen. Drown'd, drown'd.
 Queen. For love of God, forbear him!
 Queen. Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
 Queen. Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
 Queen. Hamlet, Hamlet!
 Queen. Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
 Queen. Have you forgot me?
 Queen. He's fat, and scant of breath.
 Queen. How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
 Queen. How fares my lord?
 Queen. How now, Ophelia?
 Queen. I doubt it is no other but the main,
 Queen. If it be,
 Queen. I'll warrant you; fear me not. Withdraw; I hear him coming.
 Queen. I shall obey you;
 Queen. I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me. Drinks.
 Queen. I will not speak with her.
 Queen, Laertes, with Lords attendant.]
 Queen. Let her come in.
 Queen. Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
 Queen. Mad as the sea and wind when both contend
 Queen. More matter, with less art.
 Queen. Nay, but Ophelia-
 Queen. Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak.
 Queen. No more!
 Queen. No, no! the drink, the drink! O my dear Hamlet!
 Queen. No, nothing but ourselves.
 Queen. Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light,
 Queen. Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
 Queen. O Hamlet, speak no more!
 Queen. O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
 Queen. O, confound the rest!
 Queen. O me, what hast thou done?
 Queen. O my son, what theme?
 Queen. One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
 Queen. O, speak to me no more!
 Queen. O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
 Queen. Sleep rock thy brain,
 Queen. So he does indeed.
 Queen. So many journeys may the sun and moon
 Queen. Sweets to the sweet! Farewell.
 Queen. Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.
 Queen. The instances that second marriage move
 Queen. The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
 Queen. There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
 Queen. This is mere madness;
 Queen. This is the very coinage of your brain.
 Queen. To draw apart the body he hath kill'd;
 Queen. To whom do you speak this?
 Queen. What have I done that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
 Queen. What shall I do?
 Queen. What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murther me?
 Queen. What would she have?
 Queen. Why, how now, Hamlet?
 Queen. it may be, very like.
 Quoth she, 'Before you tumbled me,
 Rankly abus'd. But know, thou noble youth,
 [Reads.]
 [Reads]'High and Mighty,-You shall know I am set naked on your
 [Reads] the letter.
 Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
 Receiv'd his love?
 Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine,
 Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
 Repast them with my blood.
 Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
 Repugnant to command. Unequal match'd,
 Requite him for your father.
 Resembles that it was. What it should be,
 Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
 [Retires with Horatio.]
 Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
 Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon,
 Rey. As gaming, my lord.
 Rey. At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,' and
 Rey. Ay, my lord,
 Rey. Ay, very well, my lord.
 Rey. But, my good lord-
 Rey. Good my lord! [Going.]
 Rey. I shall, my lord.
 Rey. I will, my lord.
 Rey. My lord, I did intend it.
 Rey. My lord, I have.
 Rey. My lord, that would dishonour him.
 Rey. Very good, my lord.
 Rey. Well, my lord.
 Reynaldo, servant to Polonius.
 Rhenish on my head once. This same skull, sir, was Yorick's
 Richer than that which four successive kings
 Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
 Rome-
 Ros. As the indifferent children of the earth.
 Ros. Ay, my lord. They stay upon your patience.
 Ros. Ay, that they do, my lord- Hercules and his load too.
 Ros. Believe what?
 Ros. Both your Majesties
 Ros. Even those you were wont to take such delight in, the
 Ros. Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation
 Ros. Good my lord!
 Ros. Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? You do surely
 Ros. Happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old
 Ros. He does confess he feels himself distracted,
 Ros. Ho, Guildenstern! Bring in my lord.
 Ros. How can that be, when you have the voice of the King himself
 Ros. I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late
 Ros. I understand you not, my lord.
 Ros. Madam, it so fell out that certain players
 Ros. Most like a gentleman.
 Ros. My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
 Ros. My lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to
 Ros. My lord, you once did love me.
 Ros. My most dear lord!
 Ros. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is,
 Ros. Neither, my lord.
 Ros. Niggard of question, but of our demands
 Ros. No indeed are they not.
 Ros. None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
 Ros. She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.
 Ros. Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
 Ros. Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
 Ros. Then is the world one.
 Ros. Then thus she says: your behaviour hath struck her into
 Ros. The single and peculiar life is bound
 Ros. To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten
 Ros. To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
 Ros. To what end, my lord?
 Ros. Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that
 Ros. We shall, my lord.
 Ros. We think not so, my lord.
 Ros. What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
 Ros. Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
 Ros. Why, then your ambition makes it one. 'Tis too narrow for your
 Ros. Will't please you go, my lord?
 Ros. Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
 Ros. [aside to Guildenstern] What say you?
 Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
 Rosencrantz, courtier.
 Ros. [to Polonius] God save you, sir!
 Rough-hew them how we will-
 Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
 Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.
 SCENE.- Elsinore.
 Sailor. 'A shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for you,
 Sailor. God bless you, sir.
 Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
 Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?
 Say, why is this? wherefore? What should we do?
 [Scatters flowers.]
 Scene II. Elsinore. A hall in the Castle.
 Scene II. Elsinore. A passage in the Castle.
 Scene II. Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
 Scene II. Elsinore. A room of state in the Castle.
 Scene II. Elsinore. hall in the Castle.
 Scene III. A room in the Castle.
 Scene III. Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
 Scene III. Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
 Scene IV. Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.
 Scene IV. Near Elsinore.
 Scene IV. The Queen's closet.
 Scene V. Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
 Scene V. Elsinore. The Castle. Another part of the fortifications.
 Scene VI. Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
 Scene VII. Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
 Seek for thy noble father in the dust.
 Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
 Seem to me all the uses of this world!
 See what a grace was seated on this brow;
 See you now-
 Servant. Seafaring men, sir. They say they have letters for you.
 Set your entreatments at a higher rate
 Shall in the general censure take corruption
 Shall you my son. You have me, have you not
 Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on her.
 Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
 She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
 She should in ground unsanctified have lodg'd
 She's so conjunctive to my life and soul
 She turns to favour and to prettiness.
 Should be as mortal as an old man's life?
 Should have a back or second, that might hold
 Should have kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt
 Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw!
 Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
 Shows itself pure. He weeps for what is done.
 Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
 Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands,
 Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
 Since nature cannot choose his origin,-
 Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
 Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
 Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
 [Sings] By Gis and by Saint Charity,
 [Sings] For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
 (Sings) He is dead and gone, lady,
 [Sings] O, a pit of clay for to be made
 (Sings) To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
 (Sings) White his shroud as the mountain snow-
 Sir, in this audience,
 Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
 Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
 Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
 [Sits down at Ophelia's feet.]
 Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
 So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
 So bloodily hast struck.
 So by his father lost; and this, I take it,
 So, by my former lecture and advice,
 So crimeful and so capital in nature,
 So excellent a king, that was to this
 So far from cheer and from your former state.
 So fast they follow. Your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
 So frown'd he once when, in an angry parle,
 So full of artless jealousy is guilt
 So grace and mercy at your most need help you,
 So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
 So horridly to shake our disposition
 Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
 So levied as before, against the Polack;
 So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
 Some little time; so by your companies
 Some say that ever, 'gainst that season comes
 So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
 So much as from occasion you may glean,
 So much from th' understanding of himself,
 So nightly toils the subject of the land,
 So oft it chances in particular men
 So, proceed you.
 So tell him, with th' occurrents, more and less,
 So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
 So to seduce!- won to his shameful lust
 So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word:
 Sound a flourish. [Enter Trumpets and Kettledrums. Danish
 'So would I 'a' done, by yonder sun,
 So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
 Speak loudly for him.
 Speak, man.
 Speak of it! Stay, and speak!- Stop it, Marcellus!
 Speak to her, Hamlet.
 Speak to me.
 Speak to me.
 Sport and repose lock from me day and night,
 Spreads his arms.
 Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look?
 Sprung from neglected love.- How now, Ophelia?
 Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
 Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
 Start up and stand an end. O gentle son,
 Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
 Stick fiery off indeed.
 Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
 Stood challenger on mount of all the age
 Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
 Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword,
 Subscrib'd it, gave't th' impression, plac'd it safely,
 Such as it is; and for my own poor part,
 Such dear concernings hide? Who would do so?
 Such love must needs be treason in my breast.
 Such was the very armour he had on
 Sure he that made us with such large discourse,
 Swear.
 Swear by my sword.
 Swear by my sword.
 'Swounds, I should take it! for it cannot be
 THE END
 Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
 Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
 Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
 Taken to wife; nor have we herein barr'd
 Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo! his sword,
 Take these again; for to the noble mind
 Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this
 Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
 T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
 Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
 Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
 Tell him that by his license Fortinbras
 Termagant. It out-herods Herod. Pray you avoid it.
 Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
 Than Young Laertes, in a riotous head,
 Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
 Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
 Than fly to others that we know not of?
 Than is my deed to my most painted word.
 Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
 Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,
 Than that which dearest father bears his son
 Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
 Than to entreaty.
 Than your particular demands will touch it.
 Th' associates tend, and everything is bent
 That I am guiltless of your father's death,
 That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
 That I essentially am not in madness,
 That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
 That I have Positively said ''Tis so,'
 That I have longed long to re-deliver.
 That I have shot my arrow o'er the house
 That I have utt'red. Bring me to the test,
 That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
 That I might be the organ.
 That I must be their scourge and minister.
 That I must call't in question.
 That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
 That I, the son of a dear father murther'd,
 That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee Hamlet,
 That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
 That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
 That are but mutes or audience to this act,
 That are so fortified against our story,
 That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
 That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
 That, being of so young clays brought up with him,
 That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;
 That both the world, I give to negligence,
 'That can denote me truly. These indeed seem,
 That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
 That capability and godlike reason
 That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing,
 That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
 That else leans on th' affair. Pray you make haste.
 That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
 That ever I was born to set it right!
 That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
 That flesh is heir to. 'Tis a consummation
 That for a fantasy and trick of fame
 That, for some vicious mole of nature in them,
 That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
 That, from her working, all his visage wann'd,
 That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling
 That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
 That guilty creatures, sitting at a play,
 That has no relish of salvation in't-
 That hath a stomach in't; which is no other,
 That hath in it no profit but the name.
 That have a father klll'd, a mother stain'd,
 That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
 That he could nothing do but wish and beg
 That he cried out 'twould be a sight indeed
 That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
 That he is open to incontinency.
 That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
 That he should weep for her? What would he do,
 That he which hath your noble father slain
 That hurts by easing. But to the quick o' th' ulcer!
 That, if again this apparition come,
 That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
 That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
 That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
 That it might please you to give quiet pass
 That it went hand in hand even with the vow
 That, laps'd in time and passion, lets go by
 That lend a tyrannous and a damned light
 That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
 That live and feed upon your Majesty.
 That looks so many fadoms to the sea
 That makes calamity of so long life.
 That may to thee do ease, and, race to me,
 That might your nature, honour, and exception
 That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat
 That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
 That not your trespass but my madness speaks.
 That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
 That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
 That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
 That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
 That our devices still are overthrown;
 That patient merit of th' unworthy takes,
 That roars so loud and thunders in the index?
 That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
 That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is a vile
 That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
 That she should lock herself from his resort,
 That show of such an exercise may colour
 That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream.
 That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so quaintly
 That so his sickness, age, and impotence
 That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
 That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
 That swift as quicksilverr it courses through
 That swoopstake you will draw both friend and foe,
 That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
 That they do know my son, come you more nearer
 That they may seem the taints of liberty,
 That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
 That thou so many princes at a shot
 That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
 That thus he suffers for.
 That thy rebellion looks so giantlike?
 That to Laertes I forgot myself,
 That to the use of actions fair and good
 That treason can but peep to what it would,
 That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
 That was and is the question of these wars.
 That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
 That we can let our beard be shook with danger,
 That we find out the cause of this effect-
 That we with wisest sorrow think on him
 That would not let me sleep. Methought I lay
 That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
 That you do bend your eye on vacancy,
 That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
 That you know aught of me- this is not to do,
 That your good beauties be the happy cause
 That youth and observation copied there,
 That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
 T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
 Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!
 [The Attendants part them, and they come out of the
 The Devil himself.
 The Frenchman gave you; bring you in fine together
 The King is a thing-
 [The King puts Laertes' hand into Hamlet's.]
 The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath,
 The Queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
 The Queen, the courtiers. Who is this they follow?
 The Scripture says Adam digg'd. Could he dig without arms? I'll
 The apparition comes. I knew your father.
 The bark is ready and the wind at help,
 The bell then beating one-
 The better to beguile. This is for all:
 The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
 The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
 The canker galls the infants of the spring
 The cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth,
 The cat will mew, and dog will have his day. Exit.
 The changeling never known. Now, the next day
 The chariest maid is prodigal enough
 The cock crows.
 The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
 The corse they follow did with desp'rate hand
 The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
 The courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword,
 The crowner hath sate on her, and finds it Christian burial.
 The death I gave him. So again, good night.
 The drink, the drink! I am poison'd. [Dies.]
 The ears are senseless that should give us bearing
 The fair Ophelia!- Nymph, in thy orisons
 Th' effect of what I wrote?
 The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look
 The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
 The form of plausive manners, that these men
 The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
 The glowworm shows the matin to be near
 The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
 The great man down, you mark his favourite flies,
 The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
 The harlot's cheek, beautied with plast'ring art,
 The hart ungalled play;
 The head and source of all your son's distemper.
 The head is not more native to the heart,
 The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
 The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks
 The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble,
 The imminent death of twenty thousand men
 The insolence of office, and the spurns
 The instant burst of clamour that she made
 The inward service of the mind and soul
 Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio
 Their own enactures with themselves destroy.
 Their virtues else- be they as pure as grace,
 The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
 The leperous distilment; whose effect
 The light and careless livery that it wears
 The lists, and full proportions are all made
 The lives of many. The cesse of majesty
 The memory be green, and that it us befitted
 Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
 The natural gates and alleys of the body,
 Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
 Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
 The need we have to use you did provoke
 Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
 The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike,
 Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
 Then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es
 Then, venom, to thy work. Hurts the King.
 Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain
 The ocean, overpeering of his list,
 The origin and commencement of his grief
 The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay,
 The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
 The perfume and suppliance of a minute;
 The pith and marrow of our attribute.
 The poor advanc'd makes friends of enemies;
 The portraiture of his. I'll court his favours.
 The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit.
 The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
 The rather, if you could devise it so
 The ratifiers and props of every word,
 There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
 There falling out at tennis'; or perchance,
 Therefore I have entreated him along,
 Therefore let's follow.
 Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
 Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
 There is a play to-night before the King.
 There is no shuffling; there the action lies
 There lives within the very flame of love
 There, my lord.
 There on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
 There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
 There's such divinity doth hedge a king
 There's tricks i' th' world, and hems, and beats her heart;
 Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
 There was 'a gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
 There with fantastic garlands did she come
 The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
 'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
 'The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast-'
 The safety and health of this whole state,
 These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
 These hands are not more like.
 The serpent that did sting thy father's life
 These words like daggers enter in mine ears.
 The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
 The soldiers' music and the rites of war
 The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom.
 The source of this our watch, and the chief head
 The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege.
 The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian. You
 The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
 The tedious day with sleep.
 The terms of our estate may not endure
 The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine;
 The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
 The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
 The triumph of his pledge.
 The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
 The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn
 The unseen good old man.
 The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
 The very faculties of eyes and ears.
 The very place puts toys of desperation,
 The very soul, and sweet religion makes
 The violence of either grief or joy
 The virtue of his will; but you must fear,
 The which he loved passing well.'
 The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen.
 The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
 The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord.
 Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state,
 Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
 They are not near my conscience; their defeat
 They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
 They bore him barefac'd on the bier
 They clip us drunkards and with swinish phrase
 They cry 'Choose we! Laertes shall be king!'
 They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
 They had begun the play. I sat me down;
 They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
 The youth you breathe of guilty, be assur'd
 They shall go far with little.
 [They swear.]
 They were given me by Claudio; he receiv'd them
 Thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers
 Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
 Th' important acting of your dread command?
 'Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to him,
 (Things standing thus unknown) shall live behind me!
 Thin settled age his sables and his weeds,
 This above all- to thine own self be true,
 This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
 This bodiless creation ecstasy
 This gentle and unforc'd accord of Hamlet
 This grave shall have a living monument.
 This heavy-headed revel east and west
 This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me;
 This is but scratch'd withal. I'll touch my point
 This is one Lucianus, nephew to the King.
 This is the very ecstasy of love,
 This is th' imposthume of much wealth and peace,
 This mad young man. But so much was our love
 This man shall set me packing.
 This marvel to you.
 This must be known; which, being kept close, might move
 'This must be so.' We pray you throw to earth
 This must not be.' And then I prescripts gave her,
 This night to play before him.
 This physic but prolongs thy sickly days. Exit.
 This presence knows,
 This present object made probation.
 This realm dismantled was
 This something-settled matter in his heart,
 This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
 This sudden sending him away must seem
 This to your Majesty; this to the Queen.
 This unprevailing woe, and think of us
 This warlike volley.
 This was your husband. Look you now what follows.
 This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
 Th' observ'd of all observers- quite, quite down!
 Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
 Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
 Thou canst not then be false to any man.
 Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
 Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
 Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes. Exit.
 Though inclination be as sharp as will.
 Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
 Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
 Thou know'st already.
 Thou know'st 'tis common. All that lives must die,
 Thou liv'st; report me and my cause aright
 Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
 Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul,
 Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
 Through your dominions for this enterprise,
 Thrown out his angle for my Proper life,
 Throws up [another skull].
 [Throws up a skull.]
 Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
 Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.
 Thus conscience does make cowards of us all,
 'Thus didest thou.'
 Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
 Thus much the business is: we have here writ
 Thus runs the world away.
 Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England
 Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
 Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
 Thy natural magic and dire property
 Till I have caught her once more in mine arms.
 Till by some elder masters of known honour
 Till of this flat a mountain you have made
 Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
 Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
 Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
 Till the last trumpet. For charitable prayers,
 Till then in patience our proceeding be.
 Till then sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise,
 Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
 'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
 'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
 'Tis heavy with him; and am I then reveng'd,
 'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
 'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
 'Tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus:
 'Tis now the very witching time of night,
 'Tis strange.
 'Tis told me he hath very oft of late
 'Tis too much prov'd, that with devotion's visage
 To England send him; or confine him where
 [To Laertes] Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech.
 To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
 To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
 To any pastime?
 To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack,
 To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
 To be commanded.
 To be contracted in one brow of woe,
 To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
 To be your Valentine.
 To both your honours.
 To business with the King, more than the scope
 To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
 To cast thee up again. What may this mean
 To contract- O- the time for- a- my behove,
 To desperation turn my trust and hope,
 To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever
 To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me.
 To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
 To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
 T' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
 To exploit now ripe in my device,
 To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
 To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
 To fust in us unus'd. Now, whether it be
 Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
 Together with remembrance of ourselves.
 Together with that fair and warlike form
 To give in evidence. What then? What rests?
 To give it due content.
 To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.
 To give them seals never, my soul, consent! Exit.
 To give these mourning duties to your father;
 To give the world assurance of a man.
 To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
 To have prov'd most royally; and for his passage
 To hear and see the matter.
 To hear him so inclin'd.
 To hear of it. They are here about the court,
 To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him home;
 To heaven.
 To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil
 To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
 To him from whom you brought them. Exeunt.
 To his confine; and of the truth herein
 To his unmast'red importunity.
 To keep it from divulging, let it feed
 To keep itself from noyance; but much more
 To keep my name ungor'd. But till that time
 To keep those many many bodies safe
 To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King.
 To lay our service freely at your feet,
 To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
 To let this canker of our nature come
 To let you know of it.
 To make it truster of your own report
 To make oppression bitter, or ere this
 To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
 To mine own room again; making so bold
 To muddy death.
 To my revenge. But in my terms of honour
 To offer it the show of violence;
 Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd,
 Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
 To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
 To outface me with leaping in her grave?
 To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
 To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt.
 To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once.
 To punish me with this, and this with me,
 To put an antic disposition on),
 To quit him with this arm? And is't not to be damn'd
 To reason most absurd, whose common theme
 To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
 To show his grief. Let her be round with him;
 To show my duty in your coronation,
 To show us so much gentry and good will
 To show yourself your father's son in deed
 To sing a requiem and such rest to her
 To sleep- perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub!
 To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
 To speak of horrors- he comes before me.
 To take him in the purging of his soul,
 To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd
 To tell my story. [March afar off, and shot within.]
 To tell the secrets of my prison house,
 To tell us this.
 To the ambassadors of England gives
 'To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the most beautified
 To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
 To their lord's murther. Roasted in wrath and fire,
 To the next abstinence; the next more easy;
 To the unsatisfied.
 To those of mine!
 To try conclusions, in the basket creep
 Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.
 To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
 To what I shall unfold.
 To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
 To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
 To you alone.
 To you in satisfaction; but if not,
 To youth and liberty.
 To you yourself, to us, to every one.
 Transports his poisoned shot- may miss our name
 Treachery! Seek it out.
 Truly deliver.
 Try what repentance can. What can it not?
 Tweaks me by th' nose? gives me the lie i' th' throat
 'Twere better not assay'd. Therefore this project
 Two Clowns, gravediggers.
 Unbated and envenom'd. The foul practice
 Under the moon, can save the thing from death
 Under the which he shall not choose but fall;
 Ungart'red, and down-gyved to his ankle;
 Unhous'led, disappointed, unanel'd,
 Unite comutual in most sacred bands.
 (Unless things mortal move them not at all)
 Unmix'd with baser matter. Yes, by heaven!
 Unpeg the basket on the house's top,
 Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
 Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
 Unto our climature and countrymen.
 Unto that element; but long it could not be
 Unto the voice and yielding of that body
 Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
 Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
 Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
 Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent.
 Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
 Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
 Upon the beat and flame of thy distemper
 Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
 Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
 Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
 Upon whose property and most dear life
 Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent.
 Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
 Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg-
 Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes.
 Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
 Volt. Most fair return of greetings and desires.
 Voltemand, courtier.
 Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill.
 Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
 Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
 Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
 Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
 Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
 Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
 Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet.
 We beg your hearing patiently. [Exit.]
 We cannot get from him.
 We do it wrong, being so majestical,
 We go to gain a little patch of ground
 We heard it all.- My lord, do as you please;
 Weigh what convenience both of time and means
 Welcome, my good friends.
 We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings-
 Well may it sort that this portentous figure
 We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
 We'll put the matter to the present push.-
 Well ratified by law and heraldry,
 We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
 We may of their encounter frankly judge
 We must with all our majesty and skill
 We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him,
 Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
 Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
 We shall express our duty in his eye;
 We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes,
 We should profane the service of the dead
 We will bestow ourselves.- [To Ophelia] Read on this book,
 We would not understand what was most fit,
 What I have said to you.
 What company, at what expense; and finding
 What does this mean, my lord?
 What feast is toward in thine eternal cell
 What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
 What, have you given him any hard words of late?
 What, is Horatio there ?
 What is between you? Give me up the truth.
 What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
 What is the issue of the business there.
 What is the matter?
 What is the reason that you use me thus?
 What majesty should be, what duty is,
 What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
 What might you think? No, I went round to work
 What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
 What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
 What's near it with it. It is a massy wheel,
 What think you on't?
 What thou hast said to me.
 What to ourselves in passion we propose,
 What warlike noise is this?
 What we two nights have seen.
 What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
 When I had seen this hot love on the wing
 When I to sulph'rous and tormenting flames
 When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out
 When down her weedy trophies and herself
 When he himself might his quietus make
 When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage;
 When he is fit and seasoned for his passage?
 When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
 When he th' ambitious Norway combated.
 When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
 When in one line two crafts directly meet.
 When in your motion you are hot and dry-
 When it prov'd otherwise.?
 When our deep plots do pall; and that should learn us
 When second husband kisses me in bed.
 When second husband let me be accurst!
 When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
 When sorrows come, they come not single spies.
 When that her golden couplets are disclos'd,
 When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
 When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
 When thou liest howling.
 When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
 When we would bring him on to some confession
 When yond same star that's westward from the pole
 Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
 Where be his quiddits now, his quillets, his cases, his tenures,
 Where every god did seem to set his seal
 Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King. Exit.
 Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
 Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
 Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
 Wherein they say you shine, Your sun of parts
 Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
 Where is your son?
 Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
 Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
 Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
 Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
 Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
 Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
 Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
 Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
 Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
 Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
 Where should We have our thanks?
 Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
 Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
 Where we shall find him most conveniently. Exeunt.
 Where you may see the inmost part of you.
 Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus
 Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
 Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
 Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
 Which I have told thee, of my father's death.
 Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
 Which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield them,
 Which bewept to the grave did not go
 Which done, she took the fruits of my advice,
 Which happily foreknowing may avoid,
 Which have solicited- the rest is silence. Dies.
 Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror;
 Which is not tomb enough and continent
 Which is the mightier. In his lawless fit
 Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand!
 Which may to you, perhaps, seein much unsinew'd,
 Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
 Which now goes too free-footed.
 Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,
 Which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me.
 Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes,
 Which was declining on the milky head
 Which we do tender as we dearly grieve
 Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
 Whiles rank corruption, mining all within,
 Whips out his rapier, cries 'A rat, a rat!'
 Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
 Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
 Who does it, then? His madness. If't be so,
 Who hath reliev'd you?
 Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
 Who in her duty and obedience, mark,
 Who is't that can inform me?
 Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
 Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
 Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled
 Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
 Whose motive in this case should stir me most
 Whose spirit, with divine ambition puff'd,
 Whose violent property fordoes itself
 Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,
 Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
 Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
 Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd
 Who was in life a foolish peating knave.
 Why day is day, night is night, and time is time.
 Why does the drum come hither?
 Why seems it so particular with thee?
 Why should we in our peevish opposition
 Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
 Why the man dies.- I humbly thank you, sir.
 Why then, belike he likes it not, perdy.
 Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge!
 Why this same strict and most observant watch
 Why thou art thus incens'd. Let him go, Gertrude.
 Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
 Why to a public count I might not go
 Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
 Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do,'
 Why you proceeded not against these feats
 Will You walk out of the air, my lord?
 Will be some danger; which for to prevent,
 Will bring him to his wonted way again,
 Will not debate the question of this straw.
 Will nothing stick Our person to arraign
 Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease,
 Will return'd shall know you are come home.
 Will sate itself in a celestial bed
 Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen,
 Will want true colour- tears perchance for blood.
 Will you be rul'd by me?
 Will you do this? Keep close within your chamber.
 Winner and loser?
 With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
 With a bare bodkin? Who would these fardels bear,
 With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
 With all my imperfections on my head.
 With all my love I do commend me to you;
 With all the strength and armour of the mind
 With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
 With an attent ear, till I may deliver
 With an auspicious, and a dropping eye,
 With an entreaty, herein further shown,
 With arms encumb'red thus, or this head-shake,
 With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
 With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
 With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
 With fiery quickness. Therefore prepare thyself.
 With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing!
 With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot
 With, hoo! such bugs and goblins in my life-
 Within his truncheon's length; whilst they distill'd
 Within the book and volume of my brain,
 Within the centre.
 With juice of cursed hebona in a vial,
 With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
 With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
 With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,
 With most miraculous organ, I'll have these Players
 Without debatement further, more or less,
 Without more motive, into every brain
 Without the sensible and true avouch
 Without the which we are Pictures or mere beasts;
 With pestilent speeches of his father's death,
 With sore distraction. What I have done
 With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
 With the brave beast. So far he topp'd my thought
 With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
 With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
 With this regard their currents turn awry
 With this slave's offal. Bloody bawdy villain!
 With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
 With tristful visage, as against the doom,
 With true-love showers.
 With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
 With us to watch the minutes of this night,
 With variable objects, shall expel
 With which she followed my poor father's body
 With windlasses and with assays of bias,
 With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts-
 With wondrous potency. Once more, good night;
 Witness this army of such mass and charge,
 Woo't drink up esill? eat a crocodile?
 Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
 Words without thoughts never to heaven go. Exit.
 Worse than the mutinies in the bilboes. Rashly-
 Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
 Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib
 Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
 Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
 Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven
 Would have mourn'd longer) married with my uncle;
 Would have reverted to my bow again,
 Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
 Would make them capable.- Do not look upon me,
 Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers- if the rest of my
 Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother!
 Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have,
 Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
 Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
 Yea, from the table of my memory
 Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
 Yes, faith, heartily.
 Yet I,
 Yet have I in me something dangerous,
 Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
 Yet must not we put the strong law on him.
 Yet needfull too; for youth no less becomes
 Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
 Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
 Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
 Yet what can it when one cannot repent?
 You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
 You are the most immediate to our throne,
 You are welcome, masters; welcome, all.- I am glad to see thee
 You, as your business and desires shall point you,
 You cannot call it love; for at your age
 You cannot speak of reason to the Dane
 You do not understand yourself so clearly
 You do remember all the circumstance?
 You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
 You go not till I set you up a glass
 You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
 You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
 You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
 You know the wager?
 You laying these slight sullies on my son
 You mainly were stirr'd up.
 You must not put another scandal on him,
 You must not take for fire. From this time
 You must translate; 'tis fit we understand them.
 You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said.
 Young men will do't if they come to't
 You promis'd me to wed.'
 Your Grace has laid the odds o' th' weaker side.
 Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth;
 Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements,
 Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
 Your leave and favour to return to France;
 Your loneliness.- We are oft to blame in this,
 Your party in converse, him you would sound,
 Your skill shall, like a star i' th' darkest night,
 Your sudden coming o'er to play with you.
 Your visitation shall receive such thanks
 Your wisdom best shall think.
 You say right, sir; a Monday morning; twas so indeed.
 You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
 Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
 You told us of some suit. What is't, Laertes?
 about the mazzard with a sexton's spade. Here's fine revolution,
 a chough; but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt.
 act hath three branches-it is to act, to do, and to perform;
 action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the
 affectation; but call'd it an honest method, as wholesome as
 again.
 against their own succession.
 against the which he has impon'd, as I take it, six French
 air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical
 a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and
 all welcome. We'll e'en to't like French falconers, fly at
 alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like thieves
 altitude of a chopine. Pray God your voice, like a piece of
 amazement and admiration.
 amble, and you lisp; you nickname God's creatures and make your
 ancient gentlemen but gard'ners, ditchers, and grave-makers. They
 and aunt-mother are deceiv'd.
 and here's some for me. We may call it herb of grace o' Sundays.
 and his tricks? Why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock
 and many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes
 and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it. Go
 and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were
 and then, you know,
 and we had the trick to see't. Did these bones cost no more the
 answer is I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say,
 anything we see. We'll have a speech straight. Come, give us a
 appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony. Let me comply
 are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim
 are shot off.
 are unwrung.
 argal, she drown'd herself wittingly.
 article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make
 assigns, and three liberal-conceited carriages: that's the French
 as your daughter may conceive. Friend, look to't.
 a thing to you from his Majesty.
 bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.
 bar the door upon your own liberty, if you deny your griefs to
 beauty of the world, the paragon of animals! And yet to me what
 beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give
 believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your
 bellow for revenge.
 be otherwise.
 bet against the Danish. Why is this all impon'd, as you call it?
 be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
 better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with
 boarded them. On the instant they got clear of our ship; so I
 bonnet to his right use. 'Tis for the head.
 breeding but to play at loggets with 'em? Mine ache to think
 brings back to him, that you attend him in the hall. He sends to
 brought, the gentleman willing, and the King hold his purpose,
 but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
 by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
 calumny. Get thee to a nunnery. Go, farewell. Or if thou wilt
 carpenter?
 carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts; she
 carry cannon by our sides. I would it might be hangers till then.
 carrying torches.
 chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this
 change rapiers, [and Hamlet wounds Laertes].
 choose but weep to think they would lay him i' th' cold ground.
 chronicles of the time. After your death you were better have a
 church. Argal, the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come!
 city? Are they so follow'd?
 clouts.
 comes in again, seem to condole with her. The dead body is
 continual practice. I shall win at the odds. But thou wouldst not
 convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your worm is your
 counsel. Come, my coach! Good night, ladies. Good night, sweet
 crown, kisses it, pours poison in the sleeper's ears, and
 dare scarce come thither.
 defence?
 demanded of a sponge, what replication should be made by the son
 desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own
 deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison
 did the first murther! This might be the pate of a Politician,
 died. They say he made a good end.
 discourse most eloquent music. Look you, these are the stops.
 discourse to your beauty.
 discovery, and your secrecy to the King and Queen moult no
 discretion.
 do, crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves all;
 dreadfully attended. But in the beaten way of friendship, what
 dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.
 earth; of earth we make loam; and why of that loam (whereto he
 end.
 end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
 enough, and likelihood to lead it; as thus: Alexander died,
 entertainment than yours. You are welcome. But my uncle-father
 entertainment the players shall receive from you. We coted them
 epitaph is 'For O, for O, the hobby-horse is forgot!'
 equivocation will undo us. By the Lord, Horatio, this three years
 ere you had done.
 escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can
 especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter. If it live in
 excellence; but to know a man well were to know himself.
 excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it
 eyes. Prithee no more!
 faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! in
 father?
 favours?
 favour she must come. Make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio,
 fay, I cannot reason.
 feather. I have of late- but wherefore I know not- lost all my
 find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
 fines, his double vouchers, his recoveries. Is this the fine of
 fingers and thumbs, give it breath with your mouth, and it will
 first mouth'd, to be last Swallowed. When he needs what you have
 for England. Of them I have much to tell thee. Farewell.
 for love- very near this. I'll speak to him again.- What do you
 form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though
 (for the most part) are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb
 fortunes turn Turk with me-with two Provincial roses on my raz'd
 for your succession in Denmark?
 freely, or the blank verse shall halt fort. What players are
 full of most excellent differences, of very soft society and
 further trade with us?
 gentleman.'
 gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o' Christian burial.
 gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may say)
 given you one face, and you make yourselves another. You jig, you
 glean'd, it is but squeezing you and, sponge, you shall be dry
 gone, far gone! And truly in my youth I suff'red much extremity
 grave.]
 grave-making?
 great buyer of land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his
 great showing. Indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card
 grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance
 guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
 half a year. But, by'r Lady, he must build churches then; or else
 hath borne me on his back a thousand tunes. And now how abhorred
 hath sent me to you.
 have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes
 have not craft enough to colour. I know the good King and Queen
 have not the skill.
 have seen play, and heard others praise, and that highly (not to
 have sent for you.
 have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and
 he.
 hear? Let them be well us'd; for they are the abstract and brief
 heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
 he has laid a great wager on your head. Sir, this is the matter-
 he knew me not at first. He said I was a fishmonger. He is far
 help to hasten them?
 heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to th' court? for, by my
 him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him
 him and drown him, he drowns not himself. Argal, he that is not
 him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation
 him and my daughter.- My honourable lord, I will most humbly take
 him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
 himself; there are no tongues else for's turn.
 his authorities. But such officers do the King best service in
 his fines, and the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
 his kibe.- How long hast thou been a grave-maker?
 his love.
 his purchases, and double ones too, than the length and breadth
 his replies are! a happiness that often madness hits on, which
 history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral,
 his wife, Baptista. You shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of
 hither?
 holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy. There was, for a
 hold up Adam's profession.
 honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can
 honour and dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
 how the wheel becomes it! It is the false steward, that stole his
 humanity so abominably.
 if that his Majesty would aught with us,
 if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer.
 image of a murther done in Vienna. Gonzago is the duke's name;
 imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it
 individable, or poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
 in my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung those
 innovation.
 inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it. I loved you
 insert in't, could you not?
 into England.
 into a toil?
 is but variable service- two dishes, but to one table. That's the
 is this quintessence of dust? Man delights not me- no, nor woman
 it. Adieu.
 i' th' university, you say?
 it is but a shadow's shadow.
 it is the breathing time of day with me. Let the foils be
 it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious
 it means, say you this:
 it not?
 journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated
 keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of
 kill'd me.
 kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes;
 king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams.
 kissing carrion- Have you a daughter?
 knave jowls it to the ground,as if 'twere Cain's jawbone, that
 know a hawk from a handsaw.
 know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will
 know, to divide him inventorially would dozy th' arithmetic of
 ladies. Good night, good night. Exit
 ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last by the
 laid on twelve for nine, and it would come to immediate trial
 last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
 leaves him. The Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes
 letters for him. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of
 life,
 light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows will bring
 lips that I have kiss'd I know not how oft. Where be your gibes
 liquor.
 little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if
 lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king's mess. 'Tis
 love passing well.
 lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music,
 lungs are tickle o' th' sere; and the lady shall say her mind
 make you at Elsinore?
 make you ready.
 man; good. If the man go to this water and drown himself, it is,
 man is twice a child.
 march. [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz,
 married already- all but one- shall live; the rest shall keep as
 master's daughter.
 me mad. I say, we will have no moe marriages. Those that are
 memory, and yet but yaw neither in respect of his quick sail.
 me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me.
 me, whether you were sent for or no.
 might it not?
 mind.
 mine.
 mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so
 monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.
 more, ha?
 more than their even-Christen. Come, my spade! There is no
 much approve me. Well, sir?
 musty.
 my leave of you.
 my mother. Therefore no more, but to the matter! My mother, you
 nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing,
 neck. He lays him down upon a bank of flowers. She, seeing
 needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what
 neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.
 newly come to court Laertes; believe me, an absolute gentleman,
 nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of
 not.
 not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir,
 not mend his pace with beating; and when you are ask'd this
 not off.
 not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all
 not so wildly from my affair.
 not the million, 'twas caviary to the general; but it was (as I
 not to come, it will be now; if it be not now, yet it will come:
 nowhere but in's own house. Farewell.
 now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment that
 obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
 occasion of my sudden and more strange return.
 o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be players that I
 of a king?
 of a pair of indentures? The very conveyances of his lands will
 of his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be in's time a
 of mercy; but they knew what they did: I am to do a good turn for
 of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the
 of question and are most tyrannically clapp'd fort. These are now
 of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
 of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls
 one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England! Exit.
 only emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else to fat us, and
 on, only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter-
 on't.
 on the way, and hither are they coming to offer you service.
 or bad but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison.
 or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of
 or, if 'a do not, 'tis no great matter there.
 or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleas'd
 own grinning? Quite chap- fall'n? Now get you to my lady's
 passionate action. The Poisoner with some three or four Mutes,
 pate full of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more of
 philosophy could find it out.
 phrase.
 pick'd out of ten thousand.
 piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in
 pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,
 players do, I had as live the town crier spoke my lines. Nor do
 plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams. All which,
 pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my
 plunge him into far more choler.
 pocky corses now-a-days that will scarce hold the laying in, I
 pound! Didst perceive?
 prais'd my Lord Such-a-one's horse when he meant to beg it- might
 pray You Pass with your best violence;
 promise-cramm'd. You cannot feed capons so.
 purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a
 purpose, confess thyself-
 put another question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the
 question more in particular. What have you, my good friends,
 question next, say 'a grave-maker.' The houses he makes lasts
 question of the play be then to be considered. That's villanous
 rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdle, hangers, and
 rawer breath
 read, my lord?
 reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
 receiv'd it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in
 reckon my groans; but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
 remember. And there is pansies, that's for thoughts.
 repair hither and say you are not fit.
 reputation and profit, was better both ways.
 roof fretted with golden fire- why, it appeareth no other thing
 say-
 scarcely lie in this box; and must th' inheritor himself have no
 scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his
 seeks her own salvation?
 seems harsh and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts
 seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the
 sense.
 sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration? Impart.
 servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most
 set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember one said
 shall be the end of my business.
 shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose
 shall see anon how the murtherer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
 shame and the odd hits.
 shipwright, or the carpenter?
 shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
 should be old as I am if, like a crab, you could go backward.
 should have count'nance in this world to drown or hang themselves
 show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
 shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing
 sing? Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow
 sinners? I am myself indifferent honest, but yet I could accuse
 sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top
 sir,- it comes from th' ambassador that was bound for England- if
 sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it
 skull, the King's jester.
 slow of sail, we put on a compelled valour, and in the grapple I
 so. Three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy,
 souls, it touches us not. Let the gall'd jade winch; our withers
 soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to
 speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am easier to be play'd on than a
 speak it profanely), that, neither having the accent of
 speak no more than is set down for them. For there be of them
 spectators to laugh too, though in the mean time some necessary
 speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and
 spent.
 stopping a bunghole?
 strumpet. What news ?
 strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of Nature's
 suit of sables. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten
 sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in't
 take longer time.
 target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall
 taste of your quality. Come, a passionate speech.
 tatters, to very rags, to split the cars of the groundlings, who
 tell how. But, my lord, his Majesty bade me signify to you that
 tell me one thing.
 tell you must show fairly outwards) should more appear like
 temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the
 tenants.
 that will themselves laugh, to set on some quantity of barren
 the King.
 the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
 the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
 the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps
 the end. He keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw;
 thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course
 the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not to come', if it be
 the fashion, and so berattle the common stages (so they call
 the guts of a beggar.
 them. Let the King have the letters I have sent, and repair thou
 themselves to common players (as it is most like, if their means
 them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I
 them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goosequills and
 them to their trial-the bubbles are out,
 the only men.
 the players ready.
 the point: if I drown myself wittingly, it argues an act; and an
 the puppets dallying.
 the readiness is all. Since no man knows aught of what he leaves,
 there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties
 there, seek him i' th' other place yourself. But indeed, if you
 there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,
 the stair, into the lobby.
 the top of mine) an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,
 they?
 they are. To a nunnery, go. Exit.
 they'll tell all.
 think how ill all's here about my heart. But it is no matter.
 thirty years.
 this, give these fellows some means to the King. They have
 this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
 those that would make mows at him while my father lived give
 thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the
 through the most fann'd and winnowed opinions; and do but blow
 thy damnable faces, and begin! Come, the croaking raven doth
 till doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan; fetch me a stoup of
 to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a
 to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I have words
 tongue? You will do't, sir, really.
 top of my bent.- I will come by-and-by.
 to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
 tragedians of the city.
 tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral; scene
 translate beauty into his likeness. This was sometime a paradox,
 trippingly on the tongue. But if you mouth it, as many of our
 true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else
 tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with
 twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in
 'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show Virtue her own feature,
 uncurrent gold, be not crack'd within the ring.- Masters, you are
 unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her
 valanc'd since I saw thee last. Com'st' thou to' beard me in
 very day that young Hamlet was born- he that is mad, and sent
 very liberal conceit.
 very responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and of
 very warlike appointment gave us chase. Finding ourselves too
 vice to know him. He hath much land, and fertile. Let a beast be
 visitation? Come, deal justly with me. Come, come! Nay, speak.
 wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't! it hath made
 was converted) might they not stop a beer barrel?
 waterfly?
 we fat ourselves for maggots. Your fat king and your lean beggar
 well.- Welcome, good friends.- O, my old friend? Why, thy face is
 went to cuffs in the question.
 were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your
 what is't to leave betimes? Let be.
 what part a gentleman would see.
 when I shall (first asking your pardon thereunto) recount the
 where my abridgment comes.
 which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God,
 which was the model of that Danish seal;
 while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player
 whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a
 whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as
 will he nill he, he goes- mark you that. But if the water come to
 willingly part withal- except my life, except my life, except my
 will last you some eight year or nine year. A tanner will last
 will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between
 will speak to this fellow. Whose grave's this, sirrah?
 within 's two hours.
 with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players (which I
 work; but what o' that? Your Majesty, and we that have free
 world.
 would give you some violets, but they wither'd all when my father
 would perhaps trouble a woman.
 would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would
 would trace him, his umbrage, nothing more.
 yet? Then there's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life
 you cannot play upon me.
 you go about to recover the wind of me, as if you would drive me
 you i' th' earth three-and-twenty years.
 you nine year.
 you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free
 your bounty. Take them in.
 your friend.
 your memory, begin at this line- let me see, let me see:
 your mother's commandment; if not, your pardon and my return
 your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is.
 yourself and him, he shall not exceed you three hits; he hath
 your table!
 your whoreson dead body. Here's a skull now. This skull hath lien
